Catch You Everything Everywhere: Guarding Textual Inversion
via Concept Watermarking
Weitao Feng1, Jiyan He1, Jie Zhang2∗, Tianwei Zhang2, Wenbo Zhou1, Weiming Zhang1, and Nenghai Yu1
1University of Science and Technology of China
2Nanyang Technological University
Abstract—AIGC (AI-Generated Content) has achieved tremen-
dous success in many applications such as text-to-image tasks,
where the model can generate high-quality images with diverse
prompts, namely, different descriptions in natural languages.
More surprisingly, the emerging personalization techniques
even succeed in describing unseen concepts with only a few
personal images as references, and there have been some
commercial platforms for sharing the valuable personalized
concept. However, such an advanced technique also introduces
a severe threat, where malicious users can misuse the target
concept to generate highly-realistic illegal images. Therefore,
it becomes necessary for the platform to trace malicious users
and hold them accountable.
In this paper, we focus on guarding the most popular
lightweight personalization model, i.e., Textual Inversion (TI).
To achieve it, we propose the novel concept watermarking,
where watermark information is embedded into the target
concept and then extracted from generated images based
on the watermarked concept. Specifically, we jointly train a
watermark encoder and a watermark decoder with the sampler
in the loop.
It shows great resilience to different diffusion sampling
processes possibly chosen by malicious users, meanwhile pre-
serving utility for normal use. In practice, the concept owner
can upload his concept with different watermarks (i.e., serial
numbers) to the platform, and the platform allocates different
users with different serial numbers for subsequent tracing and
forensics.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed con-
cept watermarking is effective for guarding Textual Inversion
meanwhile guaranteeing its utility in terms of both visual
fidelity and textual editability. More importantly, our method is
robust against different processing distortions, diffusion sam-
pling configurations, and even adaptive attacks. Some ablation
studies are also implemented to verify our design. We hope this
work can shed some light on guarding personalization models.
1. Introduction
With the rapid progress of generative models, creating
high-resolution and highly realistic images from text has be-
come remarkably simple [1]–[5]. This has led to a growing
* Corresponding author: jie zhang@ntu.edu.sg
Personal Images
Concept 𝐴
Concept B
Concept C
Concept D
Concept E
Concept F
Platform
⋅⋅⋅⋅
Malicious User
Textual    Inversion
Concept Owner
Illegal Images
Infringement
Stable Diffusion Model
Misleading
Figure 1: The scenario of concept sharing and potential
misuses such as infringement and misleading.
demand for generating highly personalized and customized
content. With the emergence of various personalization tech-
niques [6]–[10], it is feasible to incorporate novel concepts
into generative models. Sharing platforms for concepts have
also emerged such as CivitAI [11] and HuggingFace [12],
facilitating the circulation and exchange of a wide range
of concepts. In Fig. 1, we display the scenario of concept
sharing, wherein there are three parties: 1) The concept
owner, who owns some personal images and utilizes some
personalization techniques such as Textual Inversion [6] to
translate personal images into a concept. 2) The concept-
sharing platform provides a chance for concept owner to
upload their valuable concepts for sharing or profit. 3) The
concept user can download desired concepts and plug them
into off-the-shelf Stable Diffusion models for generating
concept-related images.
While
these
advancements
demonstrate
the
rapid
progress of generative models, they also raise some severe
concerns about their potential misuse by malicious users.
On the one hand, these concepts may be used to produce
images for illegal commercial purposes. As shown in the
right top of Fig. 1, the attacker can download concept A
representing creative artistic style to generate images with
similar style and claim these images as his own hand-drawn
artwork, deceiving the public for personal gain [13]. Because
these creative concepts incorporate the creators’ expertise
and creativity, creators have the right to demand the usage of
concepts for certain ranges such as only sharing rather than
infringement for commercial purposes. On the other hand,
with the concept of some celebrities, the attacker is able to
generate sensitive visuals, or even fake images containing
misleading content [14], as in the right bottom of Fig. 1.
arXiv:2309.05940v1  [cs.CR]  12 Sep 2023

Concept Owner
Concept 𝐴
Concept 𝐴1
Concept 𝐴4
Concept 𝐴3
Concept 𝐴2
⋅⋅⋅⋅
𝑚1
⊕
𝑚2
⊕
𝑚3
⊕
𝑚4
⊕
Textual Inversion
𝑆𝐷
𝑆𝐷
Different Users
Platform
𝑚1
𝑚4
Tracing & Forensic
Normal
Malicious
Figure 2: The overview of concept watermarking for guard-
ing concept sharing.
Therefore, it is necessary to trace the misuse actions and
hold the attacker accountable.
To address these concerns, we propose the novel concept
watermarking, which aims to embed watermark information
to the concept and extract the watermark from the subse-
quent generated images based on the watermarked concept.
With the proposed concept watermarking, we can guard the
concept-sharing process with the collaboration between the
concept owner and the platform. As shown in Fig. 2, the con-
cept owner embeds different watermark information into the
pristine concept to obtain different concept versions, which
are uploaded to the platform. Besides, the decoder related
to the concept is also sent to the platform. The platform
only needs to allocate different users with different concept
versions and builds the relationship between the user ID
and the version number. During verification, the watermark
can be extracted by the corresponding decoder from the
misuse images. Based on the watermark information, the
platform can trace the malicious user and provide evidence
for forensics and accountability.
To achieve concept watermarking, a naive way is to add
the same watermark in the personal images before the train-
ing of Textual Inversion (as shown in Fig. 1). In fact, adding
watermarks to generated content has increasingly become
a consensus among large tech companies and governments
[15]–[17], and some watermarking methods such as DWT-
DCT [18], DWT-DCT-SVD [18], and RivaGAN [19] are
also provided by Stable Diffusion official repository [20] as
options. We direct adopt them as our baseline methods but
find that all of them totally fail (as displayed in Table 1).
Therefore, it is non-trivial to achieve concept watermarking.
Here, we point out some challenges or requirements for
concept watermarking as follows:
• Fidelity. For traditional watermarking [18], [21], [22],
fidelity means preserving visual quality between water-
marked images and original images. However, the fidelity
of concept watermarking means more. Specifically, we
shall retain the reconstruction ability and editability of
the watermarked concept, which are two common metrics
used in personalization tasks [6], [7]. That is to say,
fed with the watermarked concept, text-to-image models
can still generate images related to the original concept.
Meanwhile, the watermarked concept shall still be able
to cooperate with other prompts for image editing.
• Effectivness. Similar to traditional watermarking, effec-
tiveness requires we successfully extract watermark in-
formation from the watermarked images.
• Integrity. For effective forensics, we shall guarantee to
extract the wrong watermark information from the non-
watermarked image.
• Robustness. Robustness is an important metric to eval-
uate the utility of watermarking methods in practice.
Previous image watermarking methods mainly focus
on some digital post-processing distortions (e.g., affine
transformations and JPEG) and cross-channel transmis-
sion distortions (e.g., printing and scree-shooting). All
the above distortions are pixel-space distortions. How-
ever, concept watermarking faces more severe distortions
such as the change of layouts and backgrounds due to
the guidance of different prompts. As shown in Fig. 1,
the illegal images include the concept of ”Trump” but
with backgrounds like “jail” and “arrest”. Moreover,
concept watermarking shall also resist different diffusion
processes including different sampler methods, different
steps, model versions, etc.
To address the above challenges, we elaborately design
our training strategies, loss functions, and model architec-
tures. First, we find that if the watermarked concept is near
to the original concept, fidelity can be guaranteed. However,
a much closer distance will destroy effectiveness. That is to
say, there is a trade-off between fidelity and effectiveness.
Therefore, we adopt an incremental training strategy to first
achieve acceptable fidelity and then pursue effectiveness.
More interestingly, different model architectures hold differ-
ent performances on fidelity (see Table 6 and Fig. 8), and
we adopt the best U-Net as our watermark encoder. Second,
we point out that with an integrity-enhanced decoder, we
can successfully achieve integrity so that the model will not
falsely extract watermarks from clean images. Last but most
important, we introduce a novel sampler-in-the-loop training
framework with truncated diffusion sampling (see Fig. 3 and
Sec. 4), to obtain the robustness against the diffusion sam-
pling process. Besides, we find that concept watermarking
is inherently robust against most pixel-level distortions. We
explain it because the abstract concept is not disrupted by
such distortions. Nevertheless, we also adopt widely-used
robustness fine-tuning [21], [22] for stronger robustness. In
addition to the pixel-level distortions, the malicious user
may deliberately pre-process the watermarked concept to
remove the watermark. To remedy it, we design a contrastive
loss to improve the robustness against such pre-processing
distortions (See Table 9).
Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed
concept watermarking can effectively guard Textual Inver-
sion in terms of fidelity, effectiveness, integrity, and robust-
ness. Furthermore, our method can resist some potential
adaptive attacks, and many ablation studies are conducted
to verify our design. In summary, the primary contributions
of our work are concluded as follows:
• We point out that it is necessary to guard the scenario
of concept sharing and propose the novel concept water-
marking as a feasible solution.

• To overcome the challenges for concept watermarking,
we adopt a progressive training strategy to satisfy fidelity
and explore an integrity-enhanced decoder for effective
forensics. Besides, we find concept watermarking is in-
herently robust against pixel-level distortions. To resist
deliberate concept-level distortion, a contrastive loss is
also designed.
• Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed
method is effective for guarding Textual Inversion com-
prehensively, even facing adaptive attacks. We also con-
duct many ablation studies to justify our elaboration.
2. Related Work
2.1. Diffusion Models
Recent advances in generative models have facilitated
the emergence of various techniques, including Variational
Autoencoders (VAE) [23], Generative Adversarial Networks
(GAN) [24], Flow-based Models [25], and Diffusion Models
[26]. Among them, Diffusion Models (DMs) have achieved
state-of-the-art results in image synthesis, which employ
non-equilibrium thermodynamics principles to gradually
transform a simple prior distribution qT into a complex one
q0 over a preset maximum number of timesteps T in the
diffusion process.
The most prevalent variant of diffusion models is Latent
Diffusion Model (LDM) [5]. which runs the diffusion pro-
cess in the latent space, making its training and inference
more efficient. Specifically, LDM utilizes an image encoder
E to convert an image x ∈RH×W ×3 into a latent rep-
resentation z, i.e., z = E(x) ∈Rh×w×c. Simultaneously,
an image decoder D reconstructs the image from the latent
representation z in a reverse fashion, i.e., x = D(z).
Additionally, a conditional denoising autoencoder, denoted
as ϵθ(zt, t, y), generates images given a specific text y as
a condition, where zt signifies the latent representation at a
particular time step t ∈{1, ..., T}.
During training stage, a squared error loss L is lever-
aged to compel LDM to denoise latent representations
zt := αtz0 + σtϵ as follows:
L = Ez0,ϵ,t,y
h
∥ϵθ (zt, t, y) −ϵ∥2
2
i
,
(1)
where αt and σt represent the parameters of the diffu-
sion process, ϵ is sampled from the Gaussian distribution
N(0, I), and the ϵθ(zt, t, y) is implemented as a time-
and text-conditional U-Net [27]. Given the trained diffu-
sion models ϵθ(zt, t, y), the sampling procedures, such as
DDPM, can be represented by the following equations:
zT ∼N(0, I),
(2)
zt−1 =
1
√αt
(zt−1 −αt
√1 −¯αt
ϵθ(zt, t, y)) + σtϵ,
(3)
while ¯αt := Πt
i=1αi. Various sampling methods, includ-
ing Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models (DDIM) [28],
Analytic-DPMS [29], Euler [30] and DPM-Solver [31] can
utilize the trained model to sample more efficiently and
achieve higher-quality results.
In this paper, we conduct experiments on the most
popular LDMs, i.e., Stable Diffusion (SD) [20]. As shown
in Fig. 1, the user can download an SD from the official
website [20] and enjoy it locally. As mentioned above, there
are diverse options for the implementation of SD, which is
a challenge for the robustness of concept watermarking. In
Sec. 5.4.1, we showcase that the proposed method is robust
against different diffusion sampling configurations.
2.2. Textual Inversion
Personalization can be regarded as an interesting ex-
tension to the generic text-to-image task, namely, concept-
driven synthesis, which makes it possible to “personalize”
the image synthesis. In concept-driven synthesis, the model
is fed with a set of images sharing the same concept and
learns to synthesize images of that concept in novel contexts
such as backgrounds and layouts, which are controlled by
the text prompts. There are many emerging personalization
techniques such as Textual Inversion [6], DreamBooth [7],
and Lora-DreamBooth [32]. Among them, Textual Inversion
is the most lightweight personalization technique. Due to
its minimal parameter size and excellent editability along
with remarkable generation results, Textual Inversion gains
widespread popularity. Its small parameter size also con-
tributes to its widespread sharing, making it a mainstream
personalization method widely propagated across various
online platforms.
Simply speaking, the goal of Textual Inversion is to
provide a text representation for the abstract concept of
personal images. Then, the representation can be added to
the word list of diffusion models, which is responsible for
the subsequent generation. Specifically, Textual Inversion
aims to invert the novel concepts into pseudo-words in the
text encoder’s embeddings for the plug-in use of off-the-
shelf diffusion models like Stable Diffusion. Its training
objective can be formulated as an optimization problem:
s∗= arg min
s
Ez0∼E(x),y,ϵ∼N (0,I),t
h
∥ϵ −ϵθ (zt, t, τθ′(y))∥2
2
i
,
(4)
where s∗is the embedding of the pseudo-word, ϵθ stands
for the diffusion model, x is one image from a set of target
images and y is the condition (i.e., different prompts).
In this paper, we focus on guarding Textual Inversion via
concept watermarking, which embeds the watermark into
the concept learned by Textaul Inversion. When the concept
is subsequently fed to Stable Diffusion model by users, we
shall be able to extract the embedded watermark from the
corresponding generated images, as shown in Fig. 2.
2.3. AIGC Watermarking
There are some attempts on leveraging watermarking
techniques to guard AI-Generated Content (AIGC) or the
corresponding generative models, i.e., diffusion models.

The former task belongs to generated content detection,
which aims to distinguish whether the suspect images are
generated or not (i.e., natural images). Different from pas-
sive detection, watermarking the generated images before
releasing them can be seen as proactive detection, where the
detection is based on whether the embedded watermark is
extracted or not. This strategy is also adopted by many large
tech companies and governments [15]–[17]. For example,
Stable Diffusion official repository [20] provides watermark-
ing options with some watermarking methods such as DWT-
DCT [18], DWT-DCT-SVD [18], and RivaGAN [19]. We try
these methods for concept watermarking by watermarking
the training images of Textual Inversion. Unfortunately,
all these methods fail, and the corresponding results are
showcased in Table 1.
The latter task targets protecting the intellectual property
(IP) of the valuable diffusion model itself. There are some
attempts that can be mainly divided into three categories:
1) watermarking the entire training data of diffusion models
[33] [34]; 2) implanting backdoors into the target diffusion
model by specific text-image pairs [33] [35]; 3) adjust the
diffusion sampling process to learn a specific watermarked
sampling [36] [37]. Besides, there are two more related
works: a) Fernandez et al. [38] specifically focus on tracing
the users of different LDM versions by allocating them with
a corresponding specific watermarked VAE-decoder; b) Ma
et al. [39] propose to detect whether the personal image
is used for training personalization models like Textual In-
version. However, all methods are not feasible for guarding
concept sharing (as shown in Fig. 1).
To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to guard
concept sharing and propose the novel concept watermark-
ing as an applicable solution. We hope our work can shed
some light on the field of AIGC watermarking.
3. Threat Model
In this work, we focus on the scenario of concept
sharing, as shown in Fig. 1, which involves three parties:
(1) a concept owner who possesses the copyright to a
particular concept and releases it on the platform for public
sharing and commercial profit, (2) the platform that displays
different uploaded concepts and provides its users access to
downloading concepts they like but stipulates specific terms
of legitimate use, and (3) an attacker who downloads the
target concept and leverage off-the-shelf Stable Diffusion
for malicious use such as re-distributing generated artworks
for profit, generating sensitive images about the concept
for damage reputations or producing fake and misleading
content, all of which could result in substantial harm. In the
following part, we specify the ability and goal of each part
in detail.
3.1. Concept Owner’s Ability and Goal
The concept owner owns some valuable personal images
such as artworks or portraits, which can be seen as his
intellectual properties (IP). As shown in Fig. 2, he can
upload different versions of a concept to the platform and
collaborate with it to protect his IP right. Besides, the
concept owner knows the potential malicious use conducted
by the attacker based on Stable Diffusion, but he has no
knowledge of the diffusion configurations set by the attacker.
To guard concept sharing, the owner encodes n pieces
of watermark messages M = {m1, m2, ..., mn} into the
concept s, resulting in n watermarked concepts Swm =
{swm
1
, ...., swm
n }. The watermarked concepts shall satisfy the
following requirements: fidelity, effectiveness, integrity, and
robustness, which have been described in detail (See Sec. 1)
and the corresponding results are provided in Sec. 5.
3.2. Platform’s Ability and Goal
In our threat model, we assume that the platform is
trusted and honest, which is practical because the platform
wants to keep its reputation. The platform cannot distinguish
the normal user and malicious user only based on download-
ing behaviors, but it has the right to stipulate specific terms
of use (ToU), such as requiring proper attribution and dis-
allowing commercial and redistribution activities. Besides,
the platform is able to store the records of uploading and
downloading.
As shown in Fig. 2, the platform stores various versions
of the watermarked concept Swm uploaded by the concept
owner, each one containing different watermarks. When
users download a concept, the platform assigns different
watermarked concepts to different users and binds the wa-
termarks mi to the user identification, keeping records for
future verification. This enables the ability to trace back
potentially ToU-infringing concepts to malicious users.
Upon discovering suspicious image Ix, which might vio-
late the owner’s terms of use and infringe on their copyright,
the platform can extract watermark information from Ix to
verify if it was generated using one of the concepts in Swm.
For example, if an attacker generates an image Ix
i employing
a watermarked concept swm
i
, the platform can extract the
watermark mi from Ix
i . Thus, the platform can then identify
the user who downloaded the corresponding concept through
the records it maintains, before considering further actions
such as blocking users or resorting to the law.
3.3. Attacker’s Ability and Goals
As an attacker, he can easily download the target concept
from the platform, and plug it into the local Stable Diffusion
for arbitrary image synthesis. Notably, although the attacker
has computation resources, he has no access to the training
images related to the target concept. If he can collect them,
he can directly train his own Textual Inversion, which is out
of our scope.
The goal of the attacker is to generate illegal images but
shall bypass the platform guarding, namely, removing or
disrupting the watermark to interfere with subsequent trac-
ing. In practice, the attacker can utilize different diffusion
configurations including prompts, sampler, sampling steps,
etc. (see Sec. 5.4.1). To remove the embedded watermark,

the attacker can post-process the generated images such as
color jitter, affine transformation, JPEG, etc. (see Sec. 5.4.2).
Besides, he can also pre-process the watermarked concept
by Gaussian noise, rescaling, and smoothing (see Sec. 5.4.3).
We also consider some adaptive attacks, i.e., retraining
the concept embedding and conducting forge attacks (see
Sec. 5.5).
4. The Proposed Concept Watermarking
4.1. Overview
The overall pipeline of our method is illustrated on
Fig. 3. Above the dashed line is the training stage, wherein
the encoder and decoder are jointly trained with the sampler
in the loop. Specifically, the random bit string message
m is first replicated and then concatenated with the orig-
inal concept, serving as the input for the encoder E. The
encoder targets incorporating the watermark into the em-
bedding, namely, substituting the original embeddings with
watermarked embeddings for the corresponding tokenized
prompts. The diffusion model accepts encoded prompts
with the original concept and watermarked concept as input
and generates both clean and watermarked images. For the
decoder D, it aims to successfully extract the corresponding
embedded watermark. Below the dashed line is the verifica-
tion stage. For various prompt inputs from prompt templates,
the images generated by our watermarked concept through
the diffusion sampling process are required to reveal the
corresponding messages contained within the concept.
4.2. Training Stage
4.2.1. Watermark Embedding. This component is respon-
sible for encoding the input bit string to the original Textual
Inversion concept, meanwhile guaranteeing the utility of the
watermarked concept.
Our watermark encoder, denoted as E, accepts the Tex-
tual Inversion concept s ∈Rκ×dτ and the input message
m ∈{0, 1}q as its inputs. In order to match the size of the
Textual Inversion embedding, we replicate the bit message
m by a factor of κ × dτ/q. Here, κ signifies the number
of tokens in the concept, dτ represents the representation
dimension of the domain-specific encoder, and q indicates
the length of the watermarked bit string. Following this, the
repeated message and embedding are merged to form a rep-
resentation with dimensions R2×κ×dτ . The U-Net structure
is utilized to enable the effective encoding of the message
within the Textual Inversion concept. See more results with
different architectures in ablation study 5.6.1.
For training, we incorporate a regularization loss that
calculates the L2 distance between the original embedding
s and the watermarked embedding sm = E(s, m):
LReg = ∥s −E(s, m)∥2
2,
(5)
whose purpose is to facilitate rapid convergence of the
encoder output to the original embedding during the early
stages of training, enabling a favorable starting point and
significantly accelerating the training process.
Additionally, to improve the latent-level robustness, we
devised the contrastive loss, which aims to increase the
distinction between Textual Inversion embeddings with dif-
ferent watermarks. It is calculated similarly to contrastive
learning [40], but within only negative pairs. The similar-
ity is defined as the cosine values of two vectors, which
are obtained by subtracting the original Textual Inversion
embedding from the watermarked Textual Inversion embed-
dings. The formulation is as follows:
ri =
E(s, mi) −s
∥E(s, mi) −s∥2
,
i = {1, ..., N},
(6)
LCst =
1
N(N −1)
N
X
i,j=0,i̸=j
< ri, rj >,
(7)
where N denotes the batch size and mi refers to the i-th
watermark message employed by the encoder. Incorporating
this loss enhances the robustness of the embedding against
attacks that directly manipulate the embedding. By lessening
the similarity between embeddings containing different mes-
sages, it becomes difficult to tamper with the embedding and
cause misjudgments by the decoder. This is demonstrated in
the ablation study 5.6.4.
4.2.2. Gradient Truncated Diffusion Sampling. We select
Stable Diffusion [5] as our generative model. During the
training process, we freeze the parameters of the diffusion
model ϵθ(zt, t, y).
To make the watermark training feasible with the frozen
ϵθ(zt, t, y), in which only a part of y is influenced by
the watermark encoder E, we maintain differentiability
throughout the sampling process (e.g., DDPM in Eq. (2) and
Eq. (3)). Simultaneously, we strike a balance by propagating
gradients exclusively through the final k sampling steps to
ensure memory and computational efficiency, as well as
effectiveness. The default setting for k is 3, and this is
termed Gradient Truncated Diffusion Sampling (see Fig. 3).
This strategy is motivated by the previous investigation on
diffusion models [41]: in the early stage of the diffusion
model sampling, it heavily relied on text prompts to generate
text-aligned content. However, in the later stage, text con-
ditioning was almost completely disregarded, and the focus
shifted toward producing high-fidelity visual outputs.
During the training process, we let the diffusion model
simultaneously forward multiple embeddings in a single
mini-batch, including an original embedding and several
embeddings with different randomly generated bit strings as
watermark messages. It is essential that the generated images
from the watermarked embeddings reflect the same concept
as the original embedding. To guarantee it, we employed
the CLIP [42] to calculate the cosine-similarity loss, which
constrains the similarity between the watermarked image
and the original image:
LCLIP = −1
N
N
X
i=1
< ECLIP(Ic), ECLIP(Iw
i ) >
∥ECLIP(Ic)∥2 · ∥ECLIP(Iw
i )∥2
,
(8)

A
photo
of
S*
A
photo
of
S*
𝑘steps
Training Stage
Original Concept
𝑚
Clean Image 𝐼𝑐
Watermarked Image 𝐼𝑤
Verification Stage
Gradient Truncated Diffusion Sampling Process
𝑚
Frozen
Trainable
Diffusion Sampling Process
𝑇−𝑘steps
𝑇steps
Encoder 𝐸
Concatenate
Stop-gradient
D
D
Decoder
Decoder
A photo of S*
Manga drawing of S*
A rendering of  S*
A photo of  S* arrested
…
Prompt Templates
Message
Message
Message
Illegal Image 𝐼𝑥
𝑚
photo
of
S*
arrested
A
Figure 3: The overall framework of the proposed concept watermarking. In the training stage, we jointly train the Encoder
and Decoder to embed watermarks into Textual Inversion embeddings with sampler in the loop, while ensuring the generation
of semantically coherent images Ic and Iw. As for verification, we use different prompts as inputs to the diffusion model,
and the watermark can be extracted from the generated images Ix.
where Ic and Iw denote the clean image and watermarked
image, ECLIP denotes the CLIP vision encoder.
4.2.3. Watermark Extraction. In the watermark extraction
phase, the decoder D receives watermarked images gener-
ated by the diffusion model and aims to extract the embed-
ded watermark from these images. We employ EfficientNet-
B3 [43] pretrained on ImageNet [44] as our watermark
extraction network. We define q as the number of the
message-bits encoded into the watermark and turn the output
dimension of D into size 2q. Then, we compute the Binary
Cross Entropy (BCE) between the output logits lj of decoder
D and the pre-defined watermark message m:
lj =
exp(D(Iw)(2j−1))
exp(D(Iw)(2j−1)) + exp(D(Iw)(2j)),
(9)
LMsg = −1
q
q
X
j=1
m(j) log (lj) +

1 −m(j)
log (1 −lj) .
(10)
During the inference stage, we only need to compare the
values of l2j−1 and l2j to determine whether the bit m(j)
at index j should be 0 or 1.
4.2.4. Training Details. Here, we introduce some training
details including training objectives and an additional train-
ing strategy, i.e., robustness fine-tuning.
Training Objectives. In the training phase, we design the
progressive loss function to tackle the challenges in concept
watermarking. In the early iterations of training, we added
a strong LReg term to ensure that the output of the encoder
quickly fits the Textual Inversion embedding, which contains
the original concept. After that, we removed the LReg term
and only kept LCLIP, LMsg and LCst. Specifically, we
maintained a counter u that decrease 1 when LReg is below a
specified threshold h. When the counter becomes less than
0, it indicates that the fitting is good, and the encoder’s
output is at a favorable starting point. At this point, we re-
moved the LReg term. Experimentally, this training strategy
significantly accelerates the fitting speed and produces better
results. In general, our loss function can be formulated as
follows:
LTotal =

LCLIP + LMsg + λLReg + µLCst
if u > 0
LCLIP + LMsg + µLCst
else ,
(11)
where λ, µ are hyper-parameters to weight each term.
Robustness Fine-tuning. The proposed method can inher-
ently resist many pixel-level distortions, as our watermark
exists on the concept level. Nevertheless, we further intro-
duce the popular robustness fine-tuning strategy for robust-
ness gain. Briefly, prior to inputting generated images into
the decoder, we append a noise layer to introduce various
types of noise to them. During the robustness fine-tuning,
we freeze the encoder part and truncated the gradient back-
propagation between the distortion layer and the decoder.
As there’s no need to propagate to the noise layer, we
can introduce non-differentiable noise into the decoder’s
input, enabling us to incorporate non-differentiable post-
processing operations seamlessly into our framework. The
corresponding results are provided in Table 10.

4.3. Verification Stage
In the verification stage, under the setting of diverse
prompts, we employ a new prompt template that differs
from the prompts used during the training phase. Here, we
use the watermarked embeddings swm in combination with
the prompts from the prompt template. Through a diffusion
sampling process, we generate images and subsequently use
the decoder D to verify whether the extracted message m
matches the watermarked message.
5. Experiments
5.1. Experiment Settings
Dataset. We collected and curated various types of concepts
from online sources as our test subjects. Among them, 5
concepts are specific individuals, 2 concepts are related to
art styles, and 3 concepts are about certain objects, including
vehicles and rare items. The tested concepts cover main-
stream Textual Inversion concept types to a large extent.
For the prompt to generate images, we apply basic
prompts such as (“A photo of S*”) as references and em-
ployed the GPT-3.5 model [45] to generate more prompt
templates that encompassed a wider range of scenes. This
approach can involve more prompts in the training pro-
cess, allowing the watermark to be preserved better in the
generated images when the concept is applied to different
prompts. More details of prompt generation can be found in
Appendix 8.1.
Baseline. A straightforward idea is to investigate whether
existing image watermarks can be learned during the Tex-
tual Inversion training process and subsequently extracted
from the generated images. To examine this, we conducted
experiments using DWT-DCT [18], DWT-DCT-SVD [18],
and RivaGAN [19] as representative image watermarks due
to their good extraction rates and robustness. They are
also adopted as the official method of adding watermarks
to the generated images in Stable Diffusion. We added
these watermarks to all images in the training dataset and
then proceeded with the Textual Inversion training. Upon
completing the training, we use Stable Diffusion to sample
images and attempted to extract the watermarks from them.
It is worth noting that for the baseline implementation,
it is necessary to retrain a new Textual Inversion using the
original training data. Therefore, we conducted experiments
solely on the concepts trained by ourselves rather than the
downloaded concepts.
Evaluation Metrics. To evaluate our proposed concept wa-
termarking method, we adopt three metrics as follows:
• Watermark extraction ability. To evaluate the correctness
of the extracted watermark, we first adopt Bit Error
Rate (BER), which is calculated between the pre-defined
watermark bits and the extracted watermark bits. In the
subsequent experiments, we only showcase BER, i.e., the
average BER calculated among 256 test images. For each
test image, the watermark is regarded as successfully
extracted if it is totally the same as the label. Based
on it, the Success Rate (SR) is further defined as the
ratio of watermarked images whose hidden watermark is
successfully extracted (BER=0) in the test image set.
• Visual fidelity. We require high visual similarity of im-
ages generated by watermarked concept compared with
that generated by the corresponding pristine concept. To
evaluate it, we follow [6] to adopt Image-alignment (I-
A), which is defined as the cosine similarity of CLIP
image embedding between two images. Specifically, we
calculate I-A between the 64 generated watermarked
images and 64 generated clean images based on basic
prompts.
• Textual editability. Finally, we want to preserve the abil-
ity to modify the generated contents using prompts. To
this end, we produce a set of images using prompts of
varying scenes. These range from simplest descriptions
(“A photo of S*”), to style changes for non-style con-
cepts (“A colorful graffiti of S*”), and a compositional
prompt (“A photo of S* playing guitar in the forest”).
We measure the alignment between the generated images
and the given prompts, ensuring that the alignment does
not decrease with the watermark add-on. For this, we
use the Text-Alignment (T-A), which is used in custom
diffusion [8] and many other works. It is calculated
by given prompts and corresponding images, computing
text-image similarity in CLIP feature space.
Implementation Details. For Textual Inversion embedding,
it is important to note that different token lengths can exist,
where larger token lengths have greater capacity and can
embed more bits of information. In our experiment setting,
we were able to encode 8 bits of information into a single
token-length embedding. We set the gradient backward steps
k to 3, λ value to 10 and the µ value to 1×10−2. The counter
u was set to 200, and threshold h is set to 1×10−2. We used
the Adam [46] optimizer with a batch size of 8. The initial
learning rate was set to 1 × 10−4 and we use 2 gradient
accumulation steps. We chose Stable Diffusion v1.5 as our
base model due to its widespread usage and we adopt fp16
for it. All our experiments can be conducted on a single
A6000 GPU.
During the training process, we utilized DDIM [28] as
our sampling method, which, with a reduced number of
steps, can generate high-quality images. Although we exclu-
sively used DDIM during training, the watermark exhibited
robustness across various samplers after training completion.
Further details can be found in the Sec. 5.4.
During the robustness fine-tuning stage, as we only
need to fine-tune the decoder, the required GPU memory
significantly decreases. We set the batch size to 12 and
perform fine-tuning for each concept, limiting the steps to
a maximum of 8,000. For the rest of the parameter settings,
we keep them consistent with the training stage.
5.2. Effectivness & Fidelity
5.2.1. Effectivness. Table 1 shows the comparison between
our method and the baseline approaches in terms of the BER

Original Concept
Watermarked Concept
Gal
Gadot
Monet
style
Autumn
style
Fiat
panda
“A photo of S* ”
“A photo of a S* ”
“A painting, art by S* ”
“A painting, art by S* ”
“A photo of S* in library holding a book ”
“Downtown Sydney at sunrise in the style of S* ”
“A photo of a teddy bear, art by S* ”
“A picture of a S* racing down a desert highway ”
Original Concept
Watermarked Concept
Figure 4: Comparison between images generated by the original concept and the watermarked concept under basic prompts
and diverse prompts. The image comprises three categories: person, style, and object. Left: The results obtained from basic
prompts demonstrate excellent consistency in terms of content semantics. Right: The results from diverse prompts showcase
that the concepts with added watermarks maintain the same level of editability as the original concepts.
TABLE 1: Comparison with some baseline methods.
Method
BER(%)↓
SR(%)↑
T-A↑
I-A↑
Original
-
-
25.52
81.45
TI+DWT-DCT [18]
50.0
0.0 (✗)
25.32
79.88
TI+DWT-DCT-SVD [18]
50.1
0.0 (✗)
25.93
80.75
TI+RivaGAN [19]
52.1
0.0 (✗)
26.05
81.82
Ours
0.3
97.4 (✓)
24.78
79.73
and Success Rate. The watermark information added by the
baseline methods is largely lost during the training process,
making it challenging to extract. In contrast, our method
excels at effectively extracting the watermark, showcasing
its superior performance in guarding concept sharing.
5.2.2. Reconstruction Ability. Fig. 4 illustrates qualitative
examples of the images generated by watermarked Textual
Inversion embeddings and the original Textual Inversion em-
beddings. They are identical at the concept level, allowing
the creators to release the watermarked embeddings instead
of the original ones, resulting in images generated from
these embeddings containing concept-level watermarks. In
Table 1, we present the quantitative results, where the cal-
culation for Image-alignment of the original concept was
computed by generating 128 images independently using
the original concept with the basic prompt and subsequently
calculating pair-wise clip similarity between the first 64 and
the last 64 generated images. It sets an upper bound for
this metric since the ultimate goal is to be as similar to the
original concept as possible. Our method yields results that
are very close to the upper bound.
5.2.3. Textual Editability. Moreover, concerning Text-
alignment, our approach achieves favorable scores, indicat-
ing that the impact of our watermarks on editability is minor.
The good results obtained by the baseline methods in Text-
alignment and Image Alignment can be attributed to the fact
that the added watermarks did not significantly impact the
training process. As a result, the generated Textual Inversion
embeddings closely resemble the original Textual Inversion
embeddings, leading to a very similar performance in the
evaluation metrics.
5.3. Integrity
The integrity of the watermark in our concept-sharing
scenarios refers to the accurate identification of specific
watermarks from images. This ensures that watermarks are
not falsely identified in images that were not encoded using
our message encoder, such as those generated with the
original concept, other concepts, or other encoders.
To evaluate the integrity of our method, we assume that
the platform will distribute various quantities of the same
concept with different added watermarks to users. For eval-
uation, we randomly select v watermarked embeddings and

Clean
Watermarked
D
“0…0”
Msg
D
Integrity-Enhanced (IEh) Decoder
Figure 5: Comparison of Hit Rates for different settings. We include clean images and watermarked images with the default
decoder and the Integrity-Enhanced (IEh) decoder. The left figure illustrates the new mapping relationship of our IEh decoder.
The middle and right figures show the Hit Rate values when using the default decoder and IEh decoder, respectively, for
allocating different watermarked embeddings to different users.
treat them as distributed embeddings. We record their cor-
responding bit strings. Subsequently, we sample 1000 clean
images and 1000 watermarked images using v “distributed”
embeddings, then attempt to extract information using the
decoder. A hit is recorded when the extracted bit string
matches any of the v selected bit strings. For clean images, a
lower Hit Rate indicates better performance, and vice versa.
We define “Random” as the decoded message that is entirely
random, calculated by generating 1000 random bit strings.
Notably, as our results demonstrate on clean images, the Hit
Rate is close to the random scenario.
As depicted in Fig. 5, when the default decoder is
applied, the results for clean images closely resemble ran-
dom decoding, which is reasonable but not ideal. Thus, we
propose an Integrity-enhanced (IEh) version of our decoder,
which efficiently prevents the decoder from falsely decoding
watermarks from clean images. In this IEh version, we fine-
tune the decoder by constraining clean images to be fixed
to a specific bit string (e.g., “00...0”), and the embedding
corresponding to this bit string is removed from potentially
distributed embeddings. As presented in the left plot of
Fig. 5, we set the special bit string to all zeros. During
platform distributing embeddings, at most 2q −1 embed-
dings can be distributed, and the output for clean images
is assumed to be the all-zero bit string. With this setup,
the falsely identified hit rate was reduced to 2.83% when
releasing 255 concepts, as depicted by the orange line on
the right plot of Fig. 5.
We also tested if this fine-tuning would impact the
decoder’s performance on watermarked images. As shown
by the green line on the right plot, the performance exhibited
minimal change, only a tiny decrease.
5.4. Robustness
In this section, we evaluate the robustness of the pro-
posed method in a comprehensive way, namely, evaluat-
ing robustness against different diffusion sampling con-
figurations, post-processing on generated images, and pre-
processing on watermarked concepts.
TABLE 2: Robustness against different diffusion configu-
rations. For each setting, we showcase the average results.
The gray cell denotes default setting.
Configurations
BER(%)↓
SR(%)↑
I-A↑
Default
0.3
97.4
79.73
Diverse Prompts
3.6
83.7
-
Sampler
DDIM
0.3
97.4
79.73
DDPM
0.3
97.5
79.07
DPM-S
0.5
96.4
77.63
Euler
0.3
97.7
79.05
Sampling Steps
14
0.8
94.4
79.81
25
0.3
97.4
79.73
38
0.5
95.6
78.58
50
0.7
95.0
78.56
CFG Scales
5.0
0.9
93.3
79.87
7.5
0.3
97.4
79.73
10.0
0.2
98.1
78.16
SD Version
v1.5 →v1.4
1.7
87.5
79.49
5.4.1. Robustness Against Diffusion Sampling Configu-
rations. In this section, we explore various settings for the
diffusion sampling process. We consider that users can uti-
lize different prompts, samplers, sampling steps, Classifier-
Free Guidance (CFG) scales, and different SD versions.
Different Prompts. To test different types of concepts, we
generate distinct prompts for each category. Broadly, our
concepts fall into three categories: person, style, and object.
Since these categories exhibit significant differences and
we aim to ensure prompt diversity. Thus for each category,
we provide an instruction template and employ GPT-3.5 to
generate specific prompts. We generate 64 prompts for each
category and sampled 256 images for each concept under
different watermark messages. To be specific, we randomly
selected 4 different bit strings and get the corresponding
watermarked embeddings and sample 64 images for each.
More details can be found in Appendix 8.1 As shown
in Table 2 despite the high diversity of the prompts, our
approach still manages to maintain a good extraction rate.
Different Samplers. In the denoising process, various types
of samplers can be employed. In our study, we opted for
DDIM [28], DDPM [47], DPM-solver (DPM-S) [31], and
Euler Scheduler [30]. Among these, DPM-solver and Euler

DDIM
DDPM
DPM-S
Euler
Sampler
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
BER (%)
5
6
7
8
9
10
CFG Scales
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
20
30
40
50
Sampling Steps
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Concept Type
object
person
style
Figure 6: Watermarked concepts demonstrate robustness under diverse configurations, including distinct samplers, CFG
scales, and sampling steps. Each color signifies a concept type. The results are quantified using Bit Error Rate (BER).
Scheduler are currently the most commonly used and widely
adopted samplers. For each sampler, we generated 64 images
for our evaluation. We found that changing the sampler has
minimal impact to the watermark extraction (see Table 2).
Different Sampling Steps. Users have the flexibility to use
different sampling steps for content generation. Thus, we
evaluated watermark extraction performance under various
sampling step settings. We observed that when the sampling
steps are fewer than 14, the DDPM sampler fails to produce
high-quality results. Consequently, we chose 16 distinct
sampling step values that were almost uniformly spread
between 14 and 50. For each step value, we generated 4
different images, resulting in a total of 64 images, com-
puted the BER and Success Rate of watermark extraction,
and Image-alignment for visual fidelity. In our study, the
watermark demonstrated no signs of decreased extraction
rate with changes in the sampling steps (see Table 2).
Different CFG Scales. Classifier-Free Guidance (CFG) [48]
is a sampling method that offers greater flexibility compared
to classifier guidance and has been proven to achieve better
generation quality. It has been extensively applied in various
diffusion-based generative models. We explored the scenario
where users employ different CFG scales. We selected 16
different CFG scale values evenly spaced between 5.0 and
10.0. Similarly, for each CFG scale value, we generated
4 different images, resulting in a total of 64 images, and
computed the BER and Success Rate of watermark extrac-
tion, Image-alignment for visual fidelity. We observed that
although there is a certain tendency for the watermark ex-
traction and CFG scales, our extraction ability still remains
at a relatively high level. Furthermore, excessively low CFG
scales may lead to unusable results.
Different Versions of Stable Diffusion. The users have the
flexibility to choose different versions of Stable Diffusion,
such as Stable Diffusion v1.4 or other privately fine-tuned
models. To assess our method’s ability to withstand such
variations, we tested the scenario where the model used
in the sampling process was switched to Stable Diffusion
v1.4. As shown in Table 2, our method still maintains a
TABLE 3: Robustness against various post-processing on
generated images.
Post-processing
BER(%)↓
SR(%)↑
T-A↑
I-A↑
None
0.3
97.4
24.78
79.73
Color Jitter
3.1
91.1
24.78
76.69
Crop & Resize
3.6
80.8
24.22
78.65
Rotation
1.3
80.8
24.22
70.36
Blur
1.5
90.6
24.53
79.42
Gaussian Noise
5.3
78.2
24.76
78.48
JPEG Compress
1.9
89.2
24.23
79.37
Sharpness
0.4
96.9
24.57
79.48
good BER. However, it is important to note that for models
fine-tuned on datasets with strong personal style or other
specific scenarios which have stronger biases, the watermark
extraction performance may be impacted more.
We have recorded the BER results under different set-
tings in Fig. 6. Overall, our method achieves consistently
low BER values. We observed that concepts belonging to
the “object”, “person”, and “style” categories show different
levels of difficulty, with “person” concepts having a higher
BER compared to the other two categories. Among all the
samplers we tested, DPM-S showed the worst watermark
extraction performance, possibly due to larger differences
between DPM-S and DDIM compared to DDPM and Euler
with DDIM. Regarding the sampling steps, we did not find
significant differences between the 14 steps and 50 steps.
However, higher CFG scales lead to better extraction results.
This is because higher CFG scales increase the influence
of prompts, allowing our added watermark to be better
expressed.
5.4.2. Robustness Against Different Post-processing on
Generated Images. With generated images, the attacker
may post-process them to remove the watermark. We evalu-
ated common post-processing methods: color jitter, crop &
resize, rotation, blur, adding Gaussian noise, JPEG com-
press, and sharpness. Referring to Table 3, our method
exhibits acceptable robustness in most cases. For some
slightly higher BER such as Gaussian Noise, the corre-

TABLE 4: Robustness against different pre-processing on
the watermarked concept.
Pre-processing
BER(%)↓
SR(%)↑
T-A↑
I-A↑
None
0.3
97.4
24.78
79.73
Gaussian Noise
0.8
94.8
25.35
77.76
Rescaling
16.2
26.6
27.06
78.42
Smoothing
13.7
34.1
27.81
77.78
Figure 7: Image-alignment and BER trade-off for concept
pre-processing distortions. The blue dot represents the wa-
termarked concept without pre-processing. Visual examples
are presented at the top of the figure.
sponding utility of the processed images also degrades in
terms of visual quality (i.e., T-A and T-I). Some visual
examples are provided in Appendix 8.2. Detail settings of
post-processings can also be found in Appendix 8.3.
5.4.3. Robustness Against Pre-processing on Concept.
The attacker can also pre-process the download concept
before generating images. We consider the following three
pre-processing operations:
Adding Gaussian Noise. We added Gaussian noise to the
embeddings with an intensity of σ = 1 × 10−2. We ex-
amined 36 Textual Inversion embeddings downloaded from
the internet, with the norm typically around 1 × 10−1.
Table 4 demonstrates our method’s robustness against Gaus-
sian noise with this intensity. It can be observed that our
method demonstrates good performance against Gaussian
noise of this intensity.
Rescaling Concept Embedding. Another operation with rel-
atively minor semantic impact is rescaling the embeddings,
simply multiplying the embedding with a factor. In our
experiments, we set this value to 0.25. Table 10 shows
that although the extraction rate of our method decreases
to some extent with rescaling, the Image-Alignment (I-A)
also decreases, indicating a strong correlation between the
TABLE 5: The performance of our method against adaptive
attacks (i.e., retrain attack and forgery attack).
Adaptive Attack
BER(%)↓
SR(%)↑
T-A↑
I-A↑
None
0.0
100
25.39
82.07
Retrain Embedding
0.9
93.8
21.05
81.71
Forgery Attack
4.9
67.2
24.20
81.73
drop in watermark extraction rate and the decline in image
fidelity caused by rescaling.
Smoothing Concept Embedding. The third operation in-
volves smoothing the embeddings through a conv layer with
the 1D kernel [0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.2, 0.1]. Our experiments reveal
that while the extraction rate of our method experiences a
certain level of decrease, the Image-Alignment (I-A) also
declines simultaneously.
Furthermore, we conducted more detailed testing on a
single concept. In Fig. 7, we present the Image-alignment
and BER trade-off for different pre-processing distortions.
This graph demonstrates that for these three pre-processing
distortions, attackers attempting to reduce the extraction
Success Rate must inevitably sacrifice a portion of image
fidelity. Interestingly, attackers using Rescale and Smooth
achieve better results compared to adding Gaussian Noise.
This could be attributed to Gaussian Noise being isotropic,
leading to a higher probability of introducing distortions
orthogonal to the original embedding direction. As a result,
the semantic deviation becomes more severe compared to
Rescale and Smooth, causing the Image-alignment metric
to decline more rapidly with increasing distortion.
5.5. Adpative Attacks
In addition to the aforementioned watermark removal
methods, there are several other ways attackers can at-
tempt to remove watermarks once they have identified their
presence. We primarily considered the following two ap-
proaches: retrain embedding and forgery attack. Due to the
significant cost involved in executing these attacks, we con-
ducted experiments on a single concept for each approach.
5.5.1. Retrain Concept Embedding. Attackers can retrain
a new concept by employing the Textual Inversion pipeline
on the images sampled from the obtained concept. We
simulated this attack on one concept and found that our
watermark demonstrated robust resistance to this attack.
Referring to Table 5, even when attackers used the retrained
concept to generate images, we still achieved a 99.1% bit
accuracy. Another observed phenomenon was the decline in
the Text-alignment metric for the retrained concept, indicat-
ing a reduction in its editability.
5.5.2. Forgery Attack. Attackers can try to execute the
watermarking pipeline on the acquired concept. As a matter
of fact, the encoder is privately owned by the concept owner
and the honest platform, making it practically inaccessible to
potential attackers. What attackers can attempt is to obtain
the embeddings and then utilize this pipeline to reinitialize

an encoder and decoder, subsequently adding a watermark.
They may try to use this new watermark to misguide the
original decoder toward an incorrect bit string.
Referring to Table 5, if the attackers train a new encoder
and decoder from scratch using this pipeline, the new con-
cept preserves the original semantics reasonably well, and
we still achieve a good 95.1% bit accuracy.
5.6. Ablation Studies
We conducted comprehensive ablation studies on our
pipeline, focusing on a single concept due to experimental
costs. For all experiments except the robustness fine-tuning
section, we did not perform the second-stage fine-tuning to
avoid its influence.
5.6.1. The Influence of Encoder Architecture. In addi-
tion to the default U-Net, we further explore other various
options, including Noise LUT, MLP, shallower MLP, and
transformer, which will be first introduced below.
Noise LUT. In the Noise LUT approach, we add fixed per-
turbations to the Textual Inversion embeddings. Specifically,
for different watermark bit strings, distinct noise is added to
the TI embedding, and this noise is pre-determined. During
training, only a single decoder is required to discriminate
between different watermarks and extract the corresponding
bit string information from the images. This method is akin
to a Look-Up Table (LUT), hence we refer to it as Noise
LUT. We attempt various choices of noise variance, and in
this study, we report the best result with σ = 0.05. Other
experimental results can be found in Appendix 8.5.
MLP & shallow-MLP. For the implementation of the MLP
encoder, we flatten the concept and then repeat the Message
m to match the size of the embedding. The concatenated
data is then sent to the MLP with a hidden size of 1536. The
default MLP consists of 3 layers of Linear transformations,
and the shallower version has only 2 layers.
Transformer. For the implementation of the Transformer
encoder, we treat each bit in the message as a token and
concatenate it with the original Textual Inversion concept as
input to the transformer encoder layer. Under the standard
setting, we use two layers of transformer layers. For the
output, we use the token at the same position as the Textual
Inversion embedding input as the output of the watermarked
Textual Inversion embedding. Regarding parameter initial-
ization, we made certain adjustments by initializing all
LayerNorm to 0.1. This was found to effectively prevent
output values from becoming too large.
From Table 6 1, we can observe that Noise LUT achieves
a relatively low extraction accuracy, rendering it unsuitable
for practical use. The MLP base encoder achieves close
to 100% accuracy in extraction, but it suffers a significant
decrease in T-A, indicating a substantial loss in editability,
which is unacceptable. Although the Transformer encoder
exhibits excellent fidelity, the extraction accuracy does not
1. In Table 6 ∼Table 8, the gray cell denotes the default setting.
TABLE 6: The influence of encoder architectures.
Architectures
BER(%)↓
SR(%)↑
T-A↑
I-A↑
U-Net
0.3
98.0
25.03
81.76
Noise LUT
14.5
37.6
26.75
82.77
MLP
0.5
96.5
22.21
82.67
Shallow MLP
0.2
98.8
22.65
83.24
Transformer
26.0
9.0
22.79
84.06
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2
0
2
4
6
CLIP Bulit-in
MLP
ShallowMLP
Origin
Transformer
U-Net
NoiseLUT
U-Net C
Figure 8: T-SNE for watermarked embeddings under differ-
ent encoder architectures. For an encoder, different points
represent different watermarked messages. Origin repre-
sents the original embeddings. CLIP Built-in denotes some
embeddings directly from the CLIP text encoder. U-Net
C represents U-Net with contrastive loss applied during
training. The rest of the figures show results from different
architectures without using contrastive loss.
seem to improve further. Ultimately, the U-Net strikes the
best balance among these three evaluation metrics.
We conducted t-SNE dimensionality reduction analysis
for watermarked embeddings, as shown in Fig. 8. We ran-
domly selected some words from the CLIP text encoder’s
embeddings, which are referred to as “built-in” embeddings,
and their distribution space is often called the word vector
space. It can be observed that the original Textual Inversion
embedding, does not entirely fall into the distribution of
the “built-in” embeddings. Due to the small magnitude of
Gaussian Noise added, the NoiseLUT embeddings almost
overlap with the initial Textual Inversion embeddings.
From Fig. 8, we can see that contrastive loss enables
the embeddings with different watermarks to be more distant
from each other, enhancing robustness against preprocessing
distortions. Importantly, the embeddings generated by U-Net
as the encoder are much close to the word vector space,
unlike those by MLP, shallower MLP, and Transformer,
which lack editability. Interestingly, this observation aligns
with the findings in the Textual Inversion [6], where the
authors suggested that embeddings closer to the word space
tend to exhibit better editability. Our experimental results
here are consistent with this theory.

TABLE 7: The influence of watermark bits.
Watermark Bits
BER(%)↓
SR(%)↑
T-A↑
I-A↑
4
0.2
99.2
25.26
83.23
8
0.3
98.0
25.03
81.76
12
1.0
90.6
25.71
81.70
TABLE 8: The influence of gradient backward steps.
Gradient Steps
BER(%)↓
SR(%)↑
T-A↑
I-A↑
1
24.0
18.3
26.37
82.98
2
13.0
23.0
25.55
82.93
3
0.3
98.0
25.03
81.76
5.6.2. The Influence of Watermark Bits . We evaluated
our pipeline’s performance by embedding 4, 8, and 12 bits
into Textual Inversion embeddings, examining the extraction
ability, fidelity, and editability. Table 7 presents our results.
As the number of embedded bits increased, we observed
a slight decrease in the extraction accuracy and fidelity.
However, our method consistently maintains editability even
with a higher number of hidden bits.
5.6.3. The Influence of Gradient Backward Steps. We
examined the impact of retaining different numbers of gra-
dient backward steps on the results. For Gradient backward
steps=0 and 1, we did not wait for the loss curve to converge
before stopping since its loss curve descend very slowly. We
trained all settings for 10,000 steps.
In Table 8, we observe that retaining more gradient
backward steps leads to better results. Our current GPU lim-
itations prevent us from increasing the number of gradient
backward steps while keeping the batch size constant, but
we anticipate further room for improvement in the future.
5.6.4. The Importance of Contrastive Loss. We tested
the effect of the Contrastive Loss on improving robustness
against pre-processing distortion in one of the concepts. As
shown in Table 9, adding this loss significantly improved
the performance against pre-processing distortion.
5.6.5. The Impact of Robustness Fine-tuning. We investi-
gated the influence of robustness fine-tuning on the results.
Table 10 demonstrates the BER results before and after
robustness fine-tuning for different distortion types. Across
almost all distortion types, Robustness fine-tuning enhances
the decoder’s capabilities.
6. Discussion
6.1. The Capacity of the Proposed Method.
The empirical results demonstrate that our method
achieves a remarkable 97.4% Success Rate for the evaluated
concepts using 8-bit settings. This renders it suitable for
accommodating up to 255 users (except for the held-out
“00..0” for clean images). It is important to recognize that
many concepts generated through Textual Inversion are not
intended to encode precise messages and only few tokens
are generally utilized to convey semantic information. The
TABLE 9: The impact of the contrastive loss on the robust-
ness against pre-processing distortion
Pre-processing
Contrastive Loss (BER(%)↓)
w/o
w/
None
0.7
0.3
Gaussian Noise
4.7
0.5
Rescale
13.7
3.5
Smoothing
22.3
4.3
TABLE 10: The impact of the robustness fine-tuning on the
robustness against post-processing distortion
Post-processing
Robustness Fine-tuning (BER(%)↓)
w/o
w/
None
0.2
0.0
Color Jitter
5.9
2.5
Crop & Resize
3.5
2.2
Rotation
3.0
1.0
Blur
1.0
0.3
Gaussian Noise
16.8
3.5
JPEG Compress
0.5
0.1
Sharpness
0.3
0.0
limited tokens inherently limit the overall information capac-
ity and simultaneously pose challenges to user scalability.
Regarding this, the Success Rate could be significantly
enhanced by allocating a greater number of tokens in the
Textual Inversion training at a relatively low additional cost.
Moreover, expanding the gradient steps k and the encoder
and decoder model sizes can potentially improve scalability..
6.2. The Computational Cost.
Although the weights of the diffusion model do not
need to be modified, the training process for the hiding
and revealing nets involves the computation of a diffusion
sampling pipeline, which can be computationally expensive.
Some recent work has demonstrated new training techniques
for Textual Inversion [49]. Additionally, more novel rapid
sampling techniques are yet to be explored [50] [51], which
may potentially be more efficient.
6.3. The Concept-specific Encoder and Decoder.
In this work, we don’t consider a unified watermark
encoder and decoder which can be used among different
concepts and allow adding watermarks to a new concept
without training. Because the use of a shared encoder may
introduce new vulnerabilities, such as the possibility for an
attacker to target the fixed and shared encoder or decoder
to learn how to remove watermarks or forge others.
7. Conclusion
In this paper, we point out the demand for guarding
concept sharing (i.e., Textual Inversion). To address it, we
propose the novel concept watermarking, wherein we pro-
vide some insights on training strategies and architecture
design. We conduct extensive experiments to justify its prac-
ticability in concept-sharing scenarios, in terms of fidelity,
effectiveness, integrity, and robustness. Moreover, adaptive
attacks and ablation studies are also considered.

While concentrating on the technical aspects, we also
advocate for the co-evolution of legislation and technology.
By doing this, we hope to promote the coexistence of
copyright protection and information transmission, paving
the way for a time when original ideas can flourish while
still being safeguarded.
References
[1]
Prafulla Dhariwal and Alexander Nichol.
Diffusion models beat
gans on image synthesis. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 34:8780–8794, 2021.
[2]
Alexander Quinn Nichol, Prafulla Dhariwal, Aditya Ramesh, Pranav
Shyam, Pamela Mishkin, Bob Mcgrew, Ilya Sutskever, and Mark
Chen. Glide: Towards photorealistic image generation and editing
with text-guided diffusion models. In International Conference on
Machine Learning, pages 16784–16804. PMLR, 2022.
[3]
Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu, and
Mark Chen. Hierarchical text-conditional image generation with clip
latents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06125, 2022.
[4]
Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala Li, Jay Whang,
Emily L Denton, Kamyar Ghasemipour, Raphael Gontijo Lopes,
Burcu Karagol Ayan, Tim Salimans, et al.
Photorealistic text-to-
image diffusion models with deep language understanding. Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:36479–36494, 2022.
[5]
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser,
and Bj¨orn Ommer.
High-resolution image synthesis with latent
diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 10684–10695, 2022.
[6]
Rinon Gal, Yuval Alaluf, Yuval Atzmon, Or Patashnik, Amit Haim
Bermano, Gal Chechik, and Daniel Cohen-or. An image is worth one
word: Personalizing text-to-image generation using textual inversion.
In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions, 2022.
[7]
Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael Pritch, Michael Ru-
binstein, and Kfir Aberman. Dreambooth: Fine tuning text-to-image
diffusion models for subject-driven generation. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 22500–22510, 2023.
[8]
Nupur Kumari, Bingliang Zhang, Richard Zhang, Eli Shechtman, and
Jun-Yan Zhu. Multi-concept customization of text-to-image diffusion.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 1931–1941, 2023.
[9]
Rinon Gal, Moab Arar, Yuval Atzmon, Amit H Bermano, Gal
Chechik, and Daniel Cohen-Or. Designing an encoder for fast person-
alization of text-to-image models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.12228,
2023.
[10] Jing Shi, Wei Xiong, Zhe Lin, and Hyun Joon Jung. Instantbooth:
Personalized text-to-image generation without test-time finetuning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03411, 2023.
[11] Civitai. https://civitai.com/.
[12] Huggingface. https://huggingface.co/.
[13] Kevin Roose.
https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/02/technology/ai-
artificial-intelligence-artists.html.
[14] Fake Trump arrest photos.
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-
canada-65069316.
[15] OpenAI. https://openai.com/blog/moving-ai-governance-forward.
[16] Kent
Walker.
https://blog.google/outreach-initiatives/public-
policy/our-commitment-to-advancing-bold-and-responsible-ai-
together/.
[17] Whitehouse.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-
releases/2023/07/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-secures-
voluntary-commitments-from-leading-artificial-intelligence-
companies-to-manage-the-risks-posed-by-ai/.
[18] Md Maklachur Rahman. A dwt, dct and svd based watermarking
technique to protect the image piracy. International Journal of Man-
aging Public Sector Information and Communication Technologies,
4(2):21, 2013.
[19] Kevin Alex Zhang, Lei Xu, Alfredo Cuesta-Infante, and Kalyan
Veeramachaneni. Robust invisible video watermarking with attention.
2019.
[20] Stable Diffusion. https://github.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion.
[21] Jiren Zhu, Russell Kaplan, Justin Johnson, and Li Fei-Fei. Hidden:
Hiding data with deep networks. In Proceedings of the European
conference on computer vision (ECCV), pages 657–672, 2018.
[22] Matthew Tancik, Ben Mildenhall, and Ren Ng. Stegastamp: Invisible
hyperlinks in physical photographs. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 2117–
2126, 2020.
[23] Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling.
Auto-encoding variational
bayes. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6114, 2013.
[24] Ian J. Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David
Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron C. Courville, and Yoshua Bengio.
Generative adversarial nets.
In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 27: Annual Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems 2014, December 8-13 2014, Montreal, Quebec,
Canada, pages 2672–2680, 2014.
[25] Danilo Rezende and Shakir Mohamed.
Variational inference with
normalizing flows. In International conference on machine learning,
pages 1530–1538. PMLR, 2015.
[26] Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Eric Weiss, Niru Maheswaranathan, and Surya
Ganguli. Deep unsupervised learning using nonequilibrium thermo-
dynamics. In International conference on machine learning, pages
2256–2265. PMLR, 2015.
[27] Olaf Ronneberger, Philipp Fischer, and Thomas Brox. U-net: Convo-
lutional networks for biomedical image segmentation. In Medical Im-
age Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention–MICCAI 2015:
18th International Conference, Munich, Germany, October 5-9, 2015,
Proceedings, Part III 18, pages 234–241. Springer, 2015.
[28] Jiaming Song, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Denoising dif-
fusion implicit models.
In International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2020.
[29] Fan Bao, Chongxuan Li, Jun Zhu, and Bo Zhang.
Analytic-dpm:
an analytic estimate of the optimal reverse variance in diffusion
probabilistic models. In International Conference on Learning Rep-
resentations, 2021.
[30] Tero Karras, Miika Aittala, Timo Aila, and Samuli Laine. Elucidating
the design space of diffusion-based generative models. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:26565–26577, 2022.
[31] Cheng Lu, Yuhao Zhou, Fan Bao, Jianfei Chen, Chongxuan Li, and
Jun Zhu. Dpm-solver: A fast ode solver for diffusion probabilistic
model sampling in around 10 steps. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 35:5775–5787, 2022.
[32] Edward J Hu, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean
Wang, Lu Wang, Weizhu Chen, et al.
Lora: Low-rank adaptation
of large language models. In International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2021.
[33] Yunqing Zhao, Tianyu Pang, Chao Du, Xiao Yang, Ngai-Man Che-
ung, and Min Lin. A recipe for watermarking diffusion models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.10137, 2023.
[34] Yingqian Cui, Jie Ren, Han Xu, Pengfei He, Hui Liu, Lichao
Sun, and Jiliang Tang.
Diffusionshield: A watermark for copy-
right protection against generative diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.04642, 2023.

[35] Yugeng Liu, Zheng Li, Michael Backes, Yun Shen, and Yang Zhang.
Watermarking diffusion model, 2023.
[36] Yuxin Wen, John Kirchenbauer, Jonas Geiping, and Tom Goldstein.
Tree-ring watermarks: Fingerprints for diffusion images that are
invisible and robust. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.20030, 2023.
[37] Sina
Alemohammad,
Josue
Casco-Rodriguez,
Lorenzo
Luzi,
Ahmed Imtiaz Humayun, Hossein Babaei, Daniel LeJeune, Ali
Siahkoohi, and Richard G Baraniuk.
Self-consuming generative
models go mad. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.01850, 2023.
[38] Pierre Fernandez, Guillaume Couairon, Herv´e J´egou, Matthijs Douze,
and Teddy Furon. The stable signature: Rooting watermarks in latent
diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.15435, 2023.
[39] Yihan Ma, Zhengyu Zhao, Xinlei He, Zheng Li, Michael Backes, and
Yang Zhang. Generative watermarking against unauthorized subject-
driven image synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.07754, 2023.
[40] Ting Chen, Simon Kornblith, Mohammad Norouzi, and Geoffrey
Hinton.
A simple framework for contrastive learning of visual
representations.
In International conference on machine learning,
pages 1597–1607. PMLR, 2020.
[41] Yogesh Balaji, Seungjun Nah, Xun Huang, Arash Vahdat, Jiaming
Song, Karsten Kreis, Miika Aittala, Timo Aila, Samuli Laine, Bryan
Catanzaro, et al.
ediffi: Text-to-image diffusion models with an
ensemble of expert denoisers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.01324, 2022.
[42] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh,
Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell,
Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning transferable visual mod-
els from natural language supervision. In International conference
on machine learning, pages 8748–8763. PMLR, 2021.
[43] Mingxing Tan and Quoc Le. Efficientnet: Rethinking model scaling
for convolutional neural networks.
In International conference on
machine learning, pages 6105–6114. PMLR, 2019.
[44] Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-
Fei. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database. In 2009
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
248–255. Ieee, 2009.
[45] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wain-
wright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina
Slama, Alex Ray, et al.
Training language models to follow in-
structions with human feedback.
Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 35:27730–27744, 2022.
[46] Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization. In 3rd International Conference on Learning Represen-
tations, ICLR 2015, San Diego, CA, USA, May 7-9, 2015, Conference
Track Proceedings, 2015.
[47] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel.
Denoising diffusion
probabilistic models.
Advances in neural information processing
systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.
[48] Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans. Classifier-free diffusion guidance.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.12598, 2022.
[49] Zhengcong Fei, Mingyuan Fan, and Junshi Huang.
Gradient-free
textual inversion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.05818, 2023.
[50] Wenliang Zhao, Lujia Bai, Yongming Rao, Jie Zhou, and Jiwen Lu.
Unipc: A unified predictor-corrector framework for fast sampling of
diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04867, 2023.
[51] Cheng Lu, Yuhao Zhou, Fan Bao, Jianfei Chen, Chongxuan Li, and
Jun Zhu. Dpm-solver++: Fast solver for guided sampling of diffusion
probabilistic models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.01095, 2022.
8. Appendix
8.1. Prompt Generation
Due to the existence of various types of concepts, a universal
prompt is not applicable. Therefore, we created different prompt
datasets for different types of concepts. We generate our training
and testing prompt using GPT-3.5 by telling it with the following
instructions:
[name] represents a (coarse class), take the following prompt
as a reference, and generate (number) more prompts with various
scenes and descriptions: (prompt example)
Here, (coarse class) should be replaced according to the cat-
egory of the current concept, for example, person, style, car,
crystalskull, etc. And (number) should be replaced by the number
of prompts you want to generate. For concepts related to particular
persons or objects, we chose (A photo of [name]) as our prompt
example. For the style-like concepts, we decided (A painting, art
by [name]) as our prompt example. For cars and other objects in
paper, we use (A photo of a [name])
We show 8 examples of the generated prompts for each cate-
gory here:
person
“a photo of [name] playing guitar in the forest”
“a photo of [name] shaking hands with Joe Biden”
“a photo of mysterious [name] witcher at night”
“a photo of [name] riding a bicycle under Eiffel Tower”
“[name] wearing formal clothes, wearing a tophat and holding a
cane.”
“[name] reading a book with a prism on its cover”
“[name] standing on a street corner”
“a portrait of [name] with a crown and wearing a yellow t-shirt
that has a space shuttle drawn on it.”
style
“panda mad scientist mixing sparkling chemicals, art by [name]”
“a dolphin in an astronaut suit on saturn, art by [name]”
“The Oriental Pearl in the style of [name]”
“A house with red roof in the style of [name]”
“a mouse sitting next to a computer mouse, art by [name]”
“a tiny dragon landing on a knight’s shield, art by [name]”
“an F1 race car in a Manhattan street, art by [name]”
“an elephant on the full moon, art by [name]”
object-car
“a picture of a [name] caught in the middle of a heavy
downpour”
“an image of a [name] surrounded by a crowd of admirers at a
car meet”
“a snapshot of a [name] speeding across the finish line at a race”
“a photograph of a [name] being loaded onto a transport truck
for delivery”
“a still of a [name] parked under the stars at a remote campsite”
“an illustration of a [name] being chased by a pack of exotic
sports cars”
“a panoramic shot of a [name] driving through a dense forest”
“a close-up of a [name] with custom modifications and unique
paintwork”
object-crystalskull
“a photo of a [name] submerged in a clear pool of water”
“an action shot of a [name] being used in a ritual”
“a picture of a [name] next to a flickering candle”
“an image of a [name] accompanied by a mysterious figure”
“a snapshot of a [name] resting on an ornate pillow”
“a photograph of a [name] being admired by a curious crowd”
“a still of a [name] placed in the center of a sacred circle”
“an illustration of a [name] floating in the depths of space”

8.2. Post-processing Distortion Visual Examples
Fig. 9 demonstrates the transformations we evaluated in the
Sec. 5.4.
Rotation
JPEG compression
Blur
Color jitter
Crop&resize
Origin
Sharp
Noise
Figure 9: Transformations evaluated in post-processing ro-
bustness.
8.3. Post-processing Distortion Details
We utilized the kornia python library for the following trans-
formations: For Color jitter, we modified the brightness factor,
contrast factor, saturation to 0.3, and hue factor to 0.1. For crop and
resize, we randomly extracted 384×384 blocks from the 512×512
images and resized them to 256 × 256. Gaussian blur was applied
with a kernel size of (3, 3) and sigma of (2.0, 2.0) on the images.
Gaussian noise was added with a standard deviation of 0.05. JPEG
compression was performed with a quality setting of 50. Rotation
was randomly applied to the images within a range of 0 to 180
degrees. For sharpness, we set the intensity to 1.
All of the above distortions were applied after normalizing the
images.
8.4. Words Selected in t-SNE Plot
Here we show the words we selected from CLIP text encoder
built-in embedding in Fig. 8:
man man</w> woman woman</w> cat cat</w> dog
dog</w> car car</w> water water</w> happier</w>
happiest</w> happily</w> happiness</w> happy happy</w>
sad sad</w> fight fight</w> fighter fighter</w> fighters</w>
gal gal</w> gado</w> trump trump</w> person person</w>
8.5. More Noise LUT Results
Here, we present the results of the Noise LUT method under
various standard deviation (std) conditions.
std
BER(%)↓
Success Rate(%)↑
T-A(%)↑
I-A(%)↑
σ = 0.01
47.9
3.9
25.99
81.41
σ = 0.03
26.9
11.8
26.05
80.48
σ = 0.05
14.5
37.5
26.57
80.55
σ = 0.07
17.6
29.3
26.11
80.96
σ = 0.08
20.2
24.4
26.99
79.59
σ = 0.10
27.9
13.0
26.98
74.99
TABLE 11: Different results for Noise LUT method under
different σ.
a photo of naked S*
BER: 0.25%
a photo of S* arrested
BER: 0.30%
a photo of S* jailed
BER: 0.20%
Figure 10: Our method can be well performed on malicious
prompts.
When the sigma value is very small, the Image-alignment ap-
pears to be good, but the decoder struggles to distinguish between
clean images and watermarked images. Conversely, when the sigma
value is very large, the watermarked embedding does not resemble
a typical embedding. In such cases, the embedding’s impact on the
generated results becomes unstable, leading to a decrease in both
Image-alignment and Text-alignment.
8.6. Against Malicious Prompt
Our method is trained on general prompts and can effectively
generalize across various types of prompts. Here in Fig. 10 we
demonstrate that our approach achieves a high extraction rate for
malicious prompts.
8.7. Additional Visual Results
See Fig. 11.
8.8. More Discussion
The analysis of misidentification. There exists a possibility of
misidentifying a user (with watermarked message mi) as another
user (with watermarked message mj, j ̸= i). Suppose that the
watermark decoder errs uniformly, and the assigned messages M
are distributed randomly throughout the q-bit space {0, 1}q. In
this case, the probability can be derived directly from the Success
Rate (SR) as P(m ∈M −{mi}|xwmi) = (1 −SR) |M|
2q . This
probability can be diminished by either increasing the bit number
q or reducing the assigned messages |M| while supposing the
Success Rate is fixed.

Original Concept
Watermarked Concept
Sansa
Stark
Crystal
Skull
Daen-
erys
Hudson
Hornet
“A photo of S* ”
“A photo of a S* ”
“A photo of a S* ”
“A photo of S* ”
“A photo of S* holding a long sword ”
“S* displayed in a glass case ”
“A comic drawing of S* ”
“S* parked on the street in 1950s new york city ”
Original Concept
Watermarked Concept
Under-
taker
Selena
Gomez
“A photo of S* ”
“A photo of S* ”
“a colorful graffiti of S* ”
“A photo of S* riding a bycicle under Eiffel Tower ”
Figure 11: Additional visual results.
