Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic
Coherence for Large Language Models
Mingjia Huo * 1 Sai Ashish Somayajula * 1 Youwei Liang 1 Ruisi Zhang 1 Farinaz Koushanfar 1 Pengtao Xie 1
Abstract
Large language models generate high-quality re-
sponses with potential misinformation, underscor-
ing the need for regulation by distinguishing AI-
generated and human-written texts. Watermark-
ing is pivotal in this context, which involves em-
bedding hidden markers in texts during the LLM
inference phase, which is imperceptible to hu-
mans. Achieving both the detectability of inserted
watermarks and the semantic quality of generated
texts is challenging. While current watermark-
ing algorithms have made promising progress in
this direction, there remains significant scope for
improvement. To address these challenges, we
introduce a novel multi-objective optimization
(MOO) approach for watermarking that utilizes
lightweight networks to generate token-specific
watermarking logits and splitting ratios. By lever-
aging MOO to optimize for both detection and se-
mantic objective functions, our method simultane-
ously achieves detectability and semantic integrity.
Experimental results show that our method outper-
forms current watermarking techniques in enhanc-
ing the detectability of texts generated by LLMs
while maintaining their semantic coherence. Our
code is available at https://github.com/
mignonjia/TS watermark.
1. Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly ChatGPT,
have significantly revolutionized the field of artificial intelli-
gence (AI), bringing forth unparalleled advancements and
applications with human-like capabilities (Schulman et al.,
2022). However, this rapid evolution has been accompanied
*Equal contribution
1Department of Electrical and Com-
puter Engineering, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Correspondence to:
Pengtao Xie
<p1xie@ucsd.edu>.
Proceedings of the 41 st International Conference on Machine
Learning, Vienna, Austria. PMLR 235, 2024. Copyright 2024 by
the author(s).
by ethical challenges. Prominent among these are concerns
such as their potential use in election manipulation cam-
paigns (Alvarez et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2023b), the creation
of fake news and misleading web content (Augenstein et al.,
2023), and aiding academic dishonesty by facilitating cheat-
ing on homework (Team, 2023). In light of these issues, the
detection of text generated by LLMs emerges as a critical
task, underpinning the broader goals of AI ethics and safety.
Various classification-based approaches have been proposed
to determine whether a text is generated by humans or
LLMs (OpenAI, 2023; Guo et al., 2023b; Brown et al.,
1992). However, as LLM-generated texts increasingly match
the quality of human-generated ones, these methods are los-
ing their robustness. For instance, OpenAI released its own
AI classifier (OpenAI, 2023) in early 2023, but it was later
withdrawn due to its low accuracy. Recently, watermarking
techniques in LLMs have gained popularity (Abdelnabi &
Fritz, 2021; He et al., 2022a; Zhang et al., 2023; Kirchen-
bauer et al., 2023a; Kuditipudi et al., 2023; Aaronson, 2023;
Liu et al., 2023; Ren et al., 2023; Lee et al., 2023; Wang
et al., 2023; Wouters, 2023). These techniques embed hid-
den patterns in LLM-generated texts that, while impercepti-
ble to humans, can be detected by algorithms. Kirchenbauer
et al. (2023a) propose an effective watermarking method,
referred to as KGW in this paper. To generate a new token
with a watermark, the hash of the preceding token is used
as a random seed to divide the vocabulary into a green list
and a red list with a fixed splitting ratio (i.e., the percentage
of tokens in the green list). Then a constant value, known
as the watermark logit, is added to the LLM-produced log-
its on the green list tokens. This adjustment increases the
probability of selecting the ‘green’ tokens as the new token.
To identify the presence of a watermark, a statistical test is
carried out. This involves counting the number of green list
tokens in the generated text. A higher incidence of green
tokens suggests that the text is likely to contain a watermark.
The design of KGW emphasizes easy detection of water-
marked texts. However, this approach often compromises
the semantic coherence of the texts, as highlighted in Lee
et al. (2023). One primary cause of this issue is that KGW
uses a constant splitting ratio and watermark logit across
all tokens, without taking into account the context and se-
1
arXiv:2402.18059v3  [cs.LG]  6 Jun 2024

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Current token sequence
𝑠("#), ⋯, 𝑠("%), 𝑠(&), ⋯, 𝑠('"%)
Logits 𝑙(
(') for the 
next token
Biased logits
Embedding of
𝑠('"%)
γ'
&𝑙(
(') = 𝑙(
(') + 𝐵γ' ∗δ'
Sample the next 
token 𝑠(')
Prompt
𝑠("#), ⋯, 𝑠("%)
LLM
Output without
watermark
Generation without watermark
Generation with watermark
Output with
watermark
Detection 
loss
Frozen network
Trainable network
Multi-objective 
optimization
δ'
Semantic 
loss
LLM
γ-Generator
δ-Generator
Figure 1: The training procedure is as follows: During the LLM text generation, we utilize the γ-generator and δ-generator
to modify the probability of each token before sampling the next one. The parameters of these networks are learned through
optimization of the detection loss (Eq. 4) and semantic loss (Eq. 5) within a multi-objective optimization framework.
mantics of the specific token being generated. For instance,
given the prefix “The sun rises in the”, it is highly probable
that the next token to be generated should be “east”. But
KGW’s watermarking mechanism might not choose “east”
if the splitting ratio is low and the watermark logit is high.
A lower splitting ratio results in a smaller number of words
being added to the green list, thus significantly reducing
the chances of including the word “east” in it. On the other
hand, a higher watermark logit raises the probability of
choosing a token from this list. Consequently, it becomes
highly unlikely for “east” to be selected as the next token
for generation, which will significantly impact the semantic
coherence of the text. To mitigate this issue, adjusting the
splitting ratio and watermark logit is necessary, perhaps by
increasing the splitting ratio or decreasing the watermark
logit. Unfortunately, KGW lacks such an adaptive mecha-
nism. Conversely, if KGW utilizes a low, constant splitting
ratio and a small, uniform watermark logit for every token
to maintain semantic integrity, this approach may hinder the
watermark’s detectability. Hence, it is crucial to adaptively
assign token-specific values for these hyperparameters, si-
multaneously ensuring high detectability while maintaining
semantic integrity. Some works have been proposed to im-
prove the semantics of watermarked texts. Lee et al. (2023)
proposes a selective watermarking strategy to preserve se-
mantics by adding watermarks only to high-entropy tokens
while preserving the original logits for low-entropy tokens.
Kuditipudi et al. (2023) reduce the semantics distortion by
ensuring an unbiased distribution of tokens before and af-
ter watermarking, using an exponential minimum sampling
strategy which can positively influence semantics. However,
these works face challenges in enhancing both detectability
and semantic coherence at the same time: improving one
aspect frequently compromises the other.
To address the limitations of current methods, we introduce
a novel method (Figure 1) that simultaneously achieves two
primary goals: preserving the semantic integrity of gener-
ated texts and ensuring the effectiveness of watermark detec-
tion. Our method accomplishes the goals by dynamically ad-
justing the splitting ratio and watermark logit, controlled by
two trainable light-weight networks, for each token during
its generation. These networks process the representation of
the previous token to determine the optimal splitting ratio
and the appropriate watermark logit for the next token, su-
pervised by two loss functions: 1) Watermark detectability
via a one-sided z-test (Kirchenbauer et al., 2023a), which
quantifies the presence of green tokens in the generated text.
Since this metric is inherently non-differentiable, we intro-
duce a differentiable surrogate that allows for direct opti-
mization through gradient-based techniques during training.
2) Semantic coherence of watermarked texts, for which we
measure the cosine similarity between SimCSE (Gao et al.,
2021) embeddings of watermarked and non-watermarked
texts. We develop a multi-objective optimization frame-
work that aims to achieve both objectives concurrently. Our
method is geared towards identifying Pareto optimal solu-
tions, where improving one objective does not detrimentally
affect the other. This balanced approach ensures the effec-
tiveness of watermarking while maintaining the semantic
quality of the generated texts.
Our main contributions include:
• We introduce a novel watermarking method for LLMs
that improves both detectability and semantic coher-
ence in generated texts. Unlike earlier methods, which
often face challenges in achieving these objectives si-
multaneously, our approach employs multi-objective
optimization to achieve both of them concurrently.
• Our method employs two lightweight networks to dy-
namically determine token-specific splitting ratios and
watermark logits, avoiding uniform values across all
tokens.
• Our method has undergone comprehensive evaluation,
showing superior performance in both detectability and
semantic quality compared to leading baselines.
2

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
2. Related Works
2.1. Watermarking Methods
Watermarking methods for large language models can be di-
vided into three categories: rule-based watermarking, neural
watermarking and inference-time watermarking. Rule-based
watermarking embeds watermarks using text transforma-
tions while ensuring that the overall semantic coherence is
not disturbed. These transformations involve altering lex-
ical properties (He et al., 2022a), manipulating linguistic
features (He et al., 2022b; Yoo et al., 2023), or substituting
synonyms (Munyer & Zhong, 2023; Yang et al., 2023). A
significant limitation of rule-based methods is that they are
vulnerable to attacks (e.g., replacing words with synonyms).
Neural watermarking employs neural networks to embed
watermarks into texts and decode them. Abdelnabi & Fritz
(2021) leverage a Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017) en-
coder to embed a binary watermark message, which is then
extracted by a Transformer decoder. A Transformer-based
discriminator is employed to preserve the original seman-
tics of the text while applying watermarking. REMARK-
LLM (Zhang et al., 2023) employs a message encoding
network to embed an LLM-generated text and its signature
into a watermarked version. It then utilizes a message de-
coder to extract the LLM signature from this watermarked
text. Neural watermarking methods often involve compli-
cated neural networks to insert watermarks, incurring high
computational costs during text generation and watermark
detection.
Inference-time watermarking methods insert statistical sig-
nals into model logits during inference to improve detectabil-
ity. KGW (Kirchenbauer et al., 2023a) comes under this
umbrella. However, text watermarked by this method suf-
fers from reduced semantic coherence. A series of works
have been proposed to address this issue. Wang et al. (2023)
introduce a constraint stipulating that the perplexity of wa-
termarked text must not exceed the perplexity of the original
text, as produced by the same language model without wa-
termarking, by more than a small margin. However, this
strategy is developed through a series of approximations to
ensure practical applicability. These approximations can
lead to semantic disparities between the two texts. Chen
et al. (2023) propose to split the vocabulary into a green
list and red list in a semantically more balanced manner so
that any token in the red list can be replaced by a token in
the green list. However, their splitting method is based on
LLAMA2 (Touvron et al., 2023), which is computationally
expensive. Furthermore, Liu et al. (2023) introduce a seman-
tically invariant watermarking approach, aimed to improve
attack and security robustness. They employ Compositional-
BERT (Chanchani & Huang, 2023) to extract semantic rep-
resentations of preceding tokens and produce watermark
logits from these representations. However, this method in-
curs high computation overhead during inference due to the
utilization of Compositional-BERT. Wouters (2023) present
a closed-form solution for optimizing watermarking logits
to enhance semantic integrity, with a predetermined split-
ting ratio. However, this solution relies on assumptions
that may not hold in real-world scenarios, such as all to-
kens following identical distribution, and the absence of
distribution shifts post-watermarking. Additionally, their
analysis does not extend to determining an optimal splitting
ratio - a factor that is critical for balancing detectability and
semantic preservation. To enhance semantic coherence of
watermarked computer programs, SWEET (Lee et al., 2023)
proposes to selectively insert watermarks into high-entropy
tokens instead of every token. While this method is effec-
tive for watermarking code, it demonstrates weak detection
capabilities in texts across general domains.
2.2. Multi-Objective Optimization
Multi-objective optimization (MOO) (Deb et al., 2016) ad-
dresses the challenge of simultaneously optimizing sev-
eral objectives which often conflict with each other. The
Multiple-gradient Descent Algorithm (MGDA) (D´esid´eri,
2012) is a notable gradient-based approach designed for
solving MOO problems. MGDA aims to identify a single
gradient direction theoretically capable of optimizing all
objectives concurrently. If the gradients are not normal-
ized, the direction of the optimization is expected to be
mostly influenced by the gradients of small norms (D´esid´eri,
2012). To mitigate this, various normalization methods have
been developed (Chen et al., 2018; Milojkovic et al., 2019),
striving for a more equitable consideration of all involved
gradients. In our work, we employ MGDA to identify the
Pareto optimal solutions between detectability and semantic
coherence.
3. Preliminaries
Our work is built upon an inference-time watermarking
strategy introduced in Kirchenbauer et al. (2023a). This
watermarking technique is a two-stage process: first, em-
bedding a watermark into the text during its generation, and
second, identifying the presence of this watermark in the
text. During the generation of token s(t), the hash of the
preceding token s(t−1) serves as a random seed. This seed
is used to divide the vocabulary V into a green list, which
contains a fraction γ of the vocabulary, and a red list, con-
taining the remaining (1 −γ) fraction of the vocabulary.
The parameter γ, known as the splitting ratio, determines
the size of the green list relative to the total vocabulary.
Next, a constant watermark logit, denoted as δ, is added as
a bias to the logits of green list tokens. The sampling of
the next token is then based on these adjusted logits, softly
prompting the use of green list tokens.
3

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
The process of detecting watermarked text does not require
access to the LLM that originally generated it.
Know-
ing the specific hash function and random number gener-
ator utilized is sufficient to reproduce the red and green
lists associated with each token. The detection process
involves testing the null hypothesis H0 that the text was
generated without knowledge of the green-red list rule.
This is assessed using a one-sided z-test, with a z-score
z = (|s|G −γT)/
p
Tγ(1 −γ) under H0, where |s|G rep-
resents the count of green list tokens in the watermarked text
and T denotes the length of the text. A watermark is consid-
ered successfully detected if this test leads to the rejection
of the null hypothesis, which occurs when the calculated
z-score exceeds a predetermined threshold.
4. Method
4.1. Overview
We present a novel watermarking method for LLMs, de-
signed to optimize two key aspects: detectability and seman-
tic coherence. Detectability is assessed using a one-sided
z-test that calculates a z-score based on the count of green
tokens in the text. Semantic coherence is evaluated by mea-
suring the cosine similarity between the embeddings of
watermarked and non-watermarked texts. These measures
are controlled by two hyperparameters: the split ratio γ and
watermark logit δ. Their values vary for different tokens to
reflect tokens’ unique characteristics.
To specify token-specific values of γ and δ, we employ two
light-weight networks: a γ-generator Gγ and a δ-generator
Gδ. The γ-generator processes the representation of a pre-
vious token t −1 to determine the split ratio γt for token
t, and similarly, the δ-generator operates for the watermark
logits. These networks are optimized through a specialized
multi-objective optimization framework (D´esid´eri, 2012;
Sener & Koltun, 2018), aiming to simultaneously enhance
detectability and semantic coherence. Figure 1 shows an
overview of our proposed method.
4.2. Network Design
In this section, we provide a detailed description of the
γ-generator and δ-generator.
γ-Generator.
The γ-generator is a lightweight multi-layer
perceptron. It takes the embedding of the preceding token
s(t−1) as input and generates a splitting ratio γt ∈(0, 1) for
token t. Then we define a Bernoulli distribution parame-
terized by γt, denoted as B(γt), to split the vocabulary V
into a token-specific green list and red list. Specifically, for
each token v in V, we draw a sample from this distribution,
y(t)
v
∼B(γt), to determine whether the token belongs to
the green list. The token v is assigned to the green list if the
sampled value y(t)
v
is 1, and to the red list if it is 0.
However, the sampling process from a Bernoulli distribu-
tion is non-differentiable, which prevents the gradient-based
updating of the parameters in Gγ. To address this issue,
we utilize the Gumbel-Softmax method for differentiable
sampling (Jang et al., 2017). Specifically, for each token v
in V, we estimate the probability that it belongs to the green
list, denoted as ˆy(t)
v , using the following formula:
ˆy(t)
v
=
exp

log(γt)+g0
τ

exp

log(γt)+g0
τ

+ exp

log(1−γt)+g1
τ
.
(1)
Here, g0 and g1 are i.i.d samples from Gumbel(0, 1)1. Here
τ serves as a temperature parameter. As τ approaches 0,
the distribution becomes increasingly sharp, which results
in ˆy(t)
v
more closely approximating y(t)
v . We utilize ˆy(t)
v ,
a differentiable approximation of y(t)
v , to softly split the
vocabulary into red and green token lists.
δ-Generator.
Similarly to the γ-generator, the δ-generator
is also a lightweight multi-layer perceptron, which takes
the embedding of the preceding token s(t−1) as input and
generates a watermark logit δt ∈R+ for token t to bias the
green list tokens. Recall from Sec. 4.2, ˆy(t)
v
is the probability
that a token, v ∈V, belongs to the green list. The watermark
logit δt is used to bias the model logit l(t)
v
for token v as
follows:
ˆl(t)
v
= l(t)
v
+ ˆy(t)
v
· δt.
(2)
This formulation modifies the logit of token v by adding
an appropriate amount of δt, based on the likelihood of
the token being in the green list. These adjusted logits,
{ˆl(t)
v |v ∈V}, are transformed into a probability vector using
SoftMax, which is then used to sample the next token.
4.3. Training Objectives
Our goals are to ensure both strong watermark detection
ability and high semantic coherence after adding the wa-
termark. To achieve these goals, we leverage two training
objectives: a detection loss measured by a differentiable
approximation of z-score and a semantic loss measured by
the cosine similarity of watermarked and unwatermarked
sentence embeddings.
Detection Loss.
As described in Sec. 3, KGW (Kirchen-
bauer et al., 2023a) uses a constant green list ratio γ, and
applies a one-sided z-test for watermark detection, repre-
sented as (|s|G −γT)/
p
Tγ(1 −γ). However, our method
1The Gumbel(0, 1) distribution can be sampled using inverse
transform sampling by drawing u ∼Uniform(0, 1) and computing
g = −log(−log(u)).
4

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
introduces a novel variation: γ is dynamically adapted for
each token based on the semantics of the preceding token.
We need to modify the z-score calculation to account for this
dynamic adaptation of γ. Thus, the mean and the standard
deviation of the distribution under H0 need to be estimated.
The generated tth token can be either a red list token or a
green list token. Under hypothesis H0, this categorization
follows a Bernoulli distribution B(γt) parameterized by γt.
To elucidate this, we define a random variable Xt ∼B(γt),
where Xt = 1 signifies a green list token and Xt = 0 a
red list token. The mean of Xt is thus γt. Consequently,
the total count of green list tokens in the entire sequence of
length T is represented by PT −1
t=0 Xt.
Theorem 4.1. Consider T independent Bernoulli ran-
dom variables X1, . . . , XT , each with means µ1, . . . , µT ,
0 < µt < 1 ∀t ∈1, . . . , T. The sum of these variables,
PT
t=1 Xt, follows a Poisson binomial distribution. When T
is sufficiently large, this distribution can be approximated by
a Gaussian distribution with mean: PT
t=1 µt and variance:
PT
t=1 µt(1 −µt).
Using Theorem 4.1, when T is sufficiently large, the z-score
under the null hypothesis, H0, can be approximated by the
following expression:
z =
|s|G −PT
t=1 γt
qPT
t=1 γt(1 −γt)
.
(3)
Our goal is to enhance detectability by optimizing this z-
score. However, in its current formulation, the z-score is
not differentiable with respect to the parameters of the γ-
and δ-generator, due to the term |s|G. Therefore, we pro-
pose a relaxed formulation, by relaxing |s|G, the number
of green list tokens, as PT
t=1 p(t)
gr . Given a red-green token
list during the generation of the tth token, p(t)
gr represents the
probability of selecting a green token, as determined by the
modified logits in Eq. 2. This probability is computed as
the summation of the probabilities of all tokens in the green
list, where these individual probabilities are calculated using
the Softmax function applied to the modified logits. The
relaxed z-score is:
ˆz =
PT
t=1 p(t)
gr −PT
t=1 γt
qPT
t=1 γt(1 −γt)
.
(4)
It is differentiable with respect to the parameters of the
γ and δ generators. The objective of our approach is to
maximize ˆz, thereby increasing detectability. Consequently,
the detectability loss LD is defined as LD = −ˆz, which we
aim to minimize.
Semantic Loss.
To maintain the semantic integrity of wa-
termarked texts, we aim for a high degree of semantic re-
semblance to their original, non-watermarked counterparts
generated by LLMs. To evaluate the semantic similarity
between the two versions of the text, we compute the co-
sine similarity of their latent embeddings, which are gener-
ated by the RoBERTa-base model (Liu et al., 2019) from
SimCSE (Gao et al., 2021), denoted by fθ. The SimCSE
approach pretrains the RoBERTa-base model to generate
sentence embeddings under a contrastive learning frame-
work (Hadsell et al., 2006) so that the cosine similarity
of the embeddings can indicate their semantic similarity.
Specifically, considering s and sw as the non-watermarked
and watermarked LLM-generated sentences, respectively,
we improve the semantic integrity of sw by minimizing the
following semantic loss:
LS = −cossim(fθ(s), fθ(sw)),
(5)
where cossim(·, ·) represents the cosine similarity operation.
The optimization variables are the weight parameters in the
γ- and δ-generator networks since the watermarking of sw
is controlled by these networks. Since the RoBERTa-base
model fθ and the LLM that generates sw share the same
tokenizer, we directly use the embedding generated by the
LLM as the input to fθ, making the operation differential
w.r.t. the γ- and δ-generator networks.
4.4. Multi-Objective Optimization
As explained earlier, the detection loss LD and semantic
loss LS have a competing relationship: solely decreasing
one of them often leads to the increase of the other. To
ensure concurrent reduction of both losses, we formulate a
multi-objective optimization problem:
min
Gγ,Gδ LD(Gγ, Gδ) and min
Gγ,Gδ LS(Gγ, Gδ).
(6)
The goal of this formulation is to achieve Pareto optimality
as defined below.
Definition 4.2. (Pareto Optimality)
(a). A solution (Gγ, Gδ) dominates a solution (Gγ, Gδ) if
• LD(Gγ, Gδ) ≤LD(Gγ, Gδ)
• LS(Gγ, Gδ) ≤LS(Gγ, Gδ)
and at least one inequality is strict.
(b). A solution (Gγ, Gδ) is called Pareto optimal if there
exists no other solution that dominates it.
We employ the multiple-gradient descent algorithm
(MGDA) (D´esid´eri, 2012; Sener & Koltun, 2018), to
solve the multi-objective optimization problem described in
Eq.(6). Please refer to Appendix C for details.
5

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
4.5. Watermark Generation and Detection
In this section, we introduce how to generate and detect a
watermark using the trained Gγ and Gδ. The text generation
process at inference time is similar to the procedure used in
KGW. The primary difference is that we utilize a dynamic
γt and δt for each token, outputted by the trained Gγ and
Gδ, respectively, with the inputs being the embedding of
the preceding token. Detection is conducted through one-
sided z-test, specifically by using the z-score as defined in
Eq.(3). Given a generated text, Gγ is utilized to compute
γt necessary for calculating the z-score. Compared with
the original KGW method, the only additional requirement
during watermark detection is the embedding matrix of
the LLM, which is used to compute the embedding of the
preceding token.
5. Experiments
In our experiments, we insert watermarks to two prominent
LLMs: OPT-1.3B (Zhang et al., 2022), LLAMA2-7B, 13B
and 70B (Touvron et al., 2023). The evaluation of water-
marking is based on three aspects: the trade-off between
detectability and semantic integrity, computational complex-
ity, and robustness against attacks of the watermarks. We
also perform an analysis of our learned δ and γ, and present
an ablation study in Appendix K. Training details including
the hyperparameter settings can be found in Appendix D.
5.1. Experimental Settings
Dataset and Prompt.
Following Kirchenbauer et al.
(2023a), we utilize texts from the news-like subset of the C4
dataset (Raffel et al., 2019) to insert watermarks. For each
text from this dataset, the last 200 tokens are truncated and
designated as the ‘baseline completion’ (i.e., human-written
texts). The remaining tokens from the start of the text are
considered the ‘prompt’. Conditioned on this prompt, the
LLM generates a token sequence equivalent in length to the
baseline completion, incorporating watermarks within this
generation. Following Kirchenbauer et al. (2023a), we filter
the dataset to include texts ranging from 500 to 1000 tokens.
This dataset is then divided randomly into three subsets:
6,400 texts for training, 500 for validation, and another 500
for testing.
Evaluation Metrics.
The objective of a watermarking al-
gorithm is to effectively identify texts generated by LLMs,
i.e., achieving a high true positive rate (TPR), while not
classifying texts created by humans as LLM-generated, i.e.,
with a low false positive rate (FPR). By raising the threshold
for the z-score in detection processes, we can effectively
reduce the FPR. We set this threshold to maintain FPRs
at two different levels: 0% and 1%. This is achieved by
identifying the threshold corresponding to the top 0% (or
1%) of the z-scores of all ‘baseline completions’ on the test
set. Using these thresholds, we then evaluate the TPR for
watermarked texts generated by LLMs. Additionally, we
evaluate the semantic coherence between texts generated
with and without watermarks by LLMs. We measure this
by calculating the cosine similarity of their sentence em-
beddings, obtained using the SimCSE model (as detailed in
Sec. 4.3). The metric assesses the impact of watermarking
on the quality of generated text. For each FPR level, we plot
a trade-off curve between TPR and semantic similarity to
assess the performance of the watermarking algorithms.
We compare our methods against KGW (Kirchenbauer et al.,
2023a), SWEET (Lee et al., 2023), MultiBit (Wang et al.,
2023), SIR (Liu et al., 2023), and EXP-edit (Kuditipudi
et al., 2023). Both SWEET and SIR rely on prompts during
detection, which is impractical in many real-world scenar-
ios. To ensure a fair comparison, we also include variants
of these baselines that do not use prompts during detection,
namely SWEETNoPrompt and SIRNoPrompt. We plot trade-off
curves of TPR and semantic similarity for the two settings,
FPR=0% and FPR=1%. We vary δ within the appropri-
ate range for each baseline to generate different pairs of
TPR and semantic similarity.
For KGW, SWEET, and
SWEETNoPrompt, we set γ = 0.25. For MultiBit, we use
message lengths of 9 and 7 for which the FPR is 0% and
1%, respectively. Multinomial sampling with a tempera-
ture of 1.0 and Top-k of 50 is used for text generation. For
our method, we generate different pairs of TPR and seman-
tic similarity using different initializations of the γ- and
δ-generator networks. Then we fit a curve to these pairs
(i.e., points) for each method and plot the curves to form
the Pareto frontier (Giagkiozis & Fleming, 2014), which
represents the best trade-off curve of TPR and semantic
similarity. For more details, please refer to Appendix D.
5.2. Results on Detectability and Semantic Coherence
Figure 2 and 3 show results on OPT-1.3B and LLAMA2
(7B, 13B and 70B), respectively, which highlight several
key observations when comparing with the baselines.
Comparison with KGW (Kirchenbauer et al., 2023a):
Our approach improves the Pareto frontier compared to
the KGW baseline, attributable to two key factors. The first
factor is that our method uniquely learns token-specific split-
ting ratios and watermark logits, which take into account the
distinct context and semantics of each token. This is critical
because the number of semantically appropriate tokens that
can be chosen as the next token in the sequence can vary
substantially at different time steps during text generation,
depending on the context. In scenarios where this number is
small (such as the example in Sec. 1), it is essential to lower
the splitting ratio and watermark logit to reduce the wa-
termark strength. This adjustment increases the likelihood
6

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
0.68
0.70
0.72
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.84
0.92
0.96
0.98
0.99
1.0
TPR
FPR = 0%
0.68
0.70
0.72
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.9
0.95
0.98
0.99
0.995
1.0
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
MultiBit
SWEET
SWEETNoPrompt
SIR
SIRNoPrompt
Ours
Figure 2: Comparison of the trade-off for semantic integrity
and detectability of different methods applied to OPT-1.3B.
of selecting these valid choices as the next token, thereby
maintaining semantics. Conversely, in situations where this
number is large, increasing the splitting ratio and watermark
logit to an appropriate level can improve detectability while
posing minimal risk to semantic coherence. Our method has
the adaptability that allows for token-specific adjustments
in splitting ratios and watermark logits, while KGW em-
ploys uniform values across all tokens. The second factor
distinguishing our approach is the incorporation of multi-
objective optimization, which enables simultaneous max-
imization of detectability and semantic integrity. This is
achieved by concurrently optimizing a differentiable detec-
tion loss and a semantic loss. In contrast, the KGW method
cannot explicitly optimize for these two objectives together.
Comparison with SWEET (Lee et al., 2023): Our method
achieves a better Pareto frontier than SWEET at 0% FPR
while maintaining similar performance at 1% FPR. At 0%
FPR, SWEET is notably less effective compared to our
approach and KGW, and does not achieve 100% TPR.
This may be due to its selective watermarking strategy,
which targets only high-entropy words and leaves low-
entropy words un-watermarked (δ = 0). For instance, at
(γ, δ) = (0.25, 3.0), an analysis of LLM-generated texts
that SWEET failed to detect at 0% FPR shows that, on
average, only 7 out of 200 tokens are high-entropy and el-
igible for SWEET watermarking. This limited number of
watermarkable tokens reduces SWEET’s detectability even
with high δ (see Appendix G). In contrast, both our method
and KGW achieve a 100% TPR in high δ regions. Further-
more, SWEETNoPrompt underperforms SWEET, indicating
the method’s dependence on prompts, which is impractical.
Comparison with MultiBit (Wang et al., 2023): Our
method achieves a superior Pareto frontier compared to
MultiBit. MultiBit embeds multi-bit information into LLM-
generated texts, detecting a watermark if the decoded mes-
sage matches the embedded one. However, embedding
multi-bit information often reduces text quality. To mitigate
this, Balance-Marking strategy is introduced to decrease
Table 1: Comparison of EXP-edit and Our Method
Method
TPR @ 0%
TPR @ 1%
SimCSE
EXP-edit
0.922
0.996
0.655
EXP-edit (Top-k=50)
0.968
0.996
0.677
Ours (Top-k=50)
1.000
1.000
0.713
the perplexity of watermarked texts. However, this method
is developed through a series of approximations to ensure
practical applicability, which might limit its effectiveness.
In contrast, our method directly maximizes differentiable
metrics of semantic coherence and detectability through
multi-objective optimization, inherently improving them.
Comparison with SIR (Liu et al., 2023): Our method
achieves an improved Pareto frontier than SIR. SIR primar-
ily aims to enhance attack and security robustness, lacking
a direct approach to boost text quality. Conversely, our
method employs multi-objective optimization to effectively
enhance both text quality and watermark detectability simul-
taneously. Additionally, SIRNoPrompt significantly underper-
forms compared to SIR, indicating a strong dependence on
prompts while detection. SIR is less robust than SWEET in
the no-prompt scenario, as it exhibits a greater performance
degradation without prompts compared to SWEET.
Comparison with EXP-edit (Kuditipudi et al., 2023):
EXP-edit’s generation process, which employs exponen-
tial minimum sampling, is pseudo-random and becomes
deterministic with a watermark key, facilitating detection.
Unlike ours and other KGW-based methods, which shift
the distribution using δ, EXP-edit does not alter the output
distribution of LLMs, making it indistinguishable. Since
EXP-edit does not have a δ parameter to vary and plot
the Pareto frontier, we present the results in Table 1. Our
method outperforms EXP-edit in both detectability and Sim-
CSE, demonstrating that learning token-specific parame-
ters to watermark enables appropriately shifting the output
distribution to enhance detectability without significantly
affecting semantics. This offers more freedom to effectively
embed watermark compared to EXP-edit, which lacks this
capability (Piet et al., 2023).
Since our decoding strategy uses the default Top-k value of
50, we modified the original EXP-edit generation process,
which did not implement Top-k, to sample from the top 50
tokens, naming it EXP-edit (Top-k=50). We observe that
our method still outperforms EXP-edit (Top-k=50) in terms
of detectability and SimCSE. Moreover, indistinguishable
methods like EXP-edit, which rely on pseudo-random sam-
pling during generation, cannot easily extend to other decod-
ing methods like beam search, which do not involve random-
ness. In contrast, KGW-based methods can be applied on
top of any decoding method such as beam search (Kirchen-
bauer et al., 2023a). See Appendix H for further discussion.
7

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Table 2: Generation and detection speed on OPT-1.3B for
generating 200 tokens, measured in seconds. We also show
memory utilization in Table 5.
Method
Generation (s)
Detection (s)
No Watermark
3.220
-
KGW
3.827
0.067
SWEET
4.030
0.127
EXP-edit
24.693
155.045
SIR
8.420
0.337
MultiBit
6.500
0.610
Ours
3.946
0.166
Computation Overhead: We evaluate the computational
time of our method and the baselines for text generation and
detection in Table 2. Our method achieves higher speeds
than EXP-edit, SIR, and MultiBit, while achieving speeds
comparable to KGW, SWEET, and No Watermarking.
Generalizability: Our method demonstrates good gener-
alizability across LLMs of different sizes. As shown in
Figure 3, our model (γ- and δ-generator networks), initially
trained on OPT-1.3B, demonstrates a better Pareto frontier
when applied to LLAMA2 7B, 13B and 70B. This adapt-
ability is likely because our method learns the watermarking
parameters that reflect the general nature of language itself
(see Sec. 5.3 and Appendix I for discussions), not just on
the specific details of the LLMs.
5.3. Analysis of Learned δ and γ
In this section, we examine the values of γ and δ learned
by our method for different tokens. For each part-of-speech
(POS) category, we calculate the mean and standard devia-
tion of γ and δ values generated based on preceding tokens
that are tagged with this category. This analysis is con-
ducted on ten texts, each containing 200 tokens that have
been watermarked. The results are presented in Figure 4.
One observation is that when the preceding token is an
adjective (ADJ) or a determiner (DET), γ and δ tend to
be assigned lower values. This pattern is notable because
ADJs and DETs typically precede nouns, as detailed in Ap-
pendix I. Reducing γ leads to the selection of fewer green
tokens, while simultaneously lowering δ results in applying
a smaller watermark logit to these chosen tokens. This com-
bination effectively weakens the watermark, as it biases only
a few tokens with relatively lower strength, thereby encour-
aging the selection of the token with the highest model logit.
Applying a weaker watermark to tokens following ADJs
and DETs promotes the selection of the next token with
the highest model logit, which is most likely to be a noun.
This approach thereby enhances both semantic coherence
and syntactic consistency. Similarly, our method allocates
increased values of γ and δ following punctuation (PUNCT)
0.68
0.69
0.70
Semantic Similarity
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.68
0.69
0.70
Semantic Similarity
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
(a) LLAMA2-7B
0.68
0.69
0.70
Semantic Similarity
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.68
0.69
0.70
Semantic Similarity
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
(b) LLAMA2-13B
0.670
0.675
0.680
0.685
Semantic Similarity
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.670
0.675
0.680
0.685
Semantic Similarity
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
(c) LLAMA2-70B
Figure 3: Performance of Ours (trained on OPT-1.3B) and
KGW when applied to LLAMA2 7B, 13B, and 70B.
tokens. Given the minimal constraints on subsequent tokens
after PUNCT, as detailed in Appendix I, our model poten-
tially exploits this flexibility to embed a stronger watermark.
It does so by putting more words into the green list (via
assigning higher γ values) and enhancing the preference for
these tokens through elevated δ values.
5.4. Robustness Against Attacks on Watermarks
Considering that watermarked text can be easily altered to
remove the watermark, thereby making detection challeng-
ing, we evaluate the robustness of our method against two
prevalent attacks: 1) the Paraphrase Attack (Krishna et al.,
2023), where watermarked text is rephrased by another
LLM, aiming to weaken the watermark while preserving
the original semantics; 2) the Copy-Paste Attack (Kirchen-
bauer et al., 2023b), which inserts watermarked text into its
corresponding human-generated prompts used for its cre-
ation; this attack weakens the detection of watermarks as it
increases the number of red tokens in the sentence.
8

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
NOUN PUNCT VERB
ADP
DET
PROPN PRON
ADJ
AUX
ADV
1.8
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
Watermark Logit: 
0.22
0.23
0.24
0.25
0.26
0.27
0.28
Splitting Ratio: 
Watermark Logit: 
Splitting Ratio: 
Figure 4: Distribution of watermark logit δ (left y-axis) and
splitting ratio γ (right y-axis) across different part-of-speech
categories of the preceding token.
Paraphrase Attack.
We utilized the Dipper paraphrase
model (Krishna et al., 2023) to perform paraphrase at-
tacks. The model is finetuned from the T5-XXL (Raffel
et al., 2020) model of 11B parameters, which is larger
than the OPT-1.3B model we used for text generation. The
larger model size results in improved generation capabili-
ties (Brown et al., 2020), ultimately leading to a more potent
attack. We set the paraphrase strength to the same level as
recommended in the Dipper GitHub repository for water-
mark detection, specifically lex=40, div=100.
Figure 5 shows that our method is more robust against
paraphrase attacks than KGW, as evidenced by its supe-
rior Pareto frontier. This can be attributed to the fact that
paraphrasing tends to preserve local lexical structures, in-
cluding punctuation patterns. As discussed in Sec. 5.3, our
approach inserts strong watermarks around punctuations.
These watermarks remain intact even after paraphrasing,
ensuring the detectability of the watermark in the altered
text. Such a mechanism is lacking in KGW.
Copy-Paste Attack.
Our method is evaluated against two
types of copy-paste attacks: Copy-Paste-1 and Copy-Paste-
3. In Copy-Paste-1, the entire watermarked text is inserted
at a random position within the prompt. In Copy-Paste-
3, the watermarked text is split into three segments, each
of which is then randomly inserted at different positions
in the prompt. The detection process is conducted in a
similar fashion as in Kirchenbauer et al. (2023b), using a
sliding window to compute the maximum z-score across
text subsequences. The window size is 200 for Copy-Paste-1
and 60 for Copy-Paste-3.
As shown in Figures 6, our method outperforms KGW in
achieving a superior Pareto frontier across both scenarios.
This improvement is largely due to the enhanced z-score, a
direct result of our multi-objective optimization framework,
which effectively increases the number of green tokens in
the watermarked text. This ensures successful watermark
detection even when human texts are inserted.
0.70
0.71
0.72
Semantic Similarity
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.70
0.71
0.72
Semantic Similarity
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
Figure 5: Comparison of our method with KGW under the
Dipper paraphrase attack.
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.70
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.850
0.875
0.900
0.925
0.950
0.975
1.000
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
Figure 6: Comparison of our method with KGW under the
Copy-Paste-1 (the two figures at the top) and Copy-Paste-3
attack (the two figures at the bottom).
6. Conclusion
In this work, we introduce a novel multi-objective optimiza-
tion framework for watermarking LLMs during inference
time. This method is designed to simultaneously optimize
two light-weight networks, responsible for generating token-
specific splitting ratios and watermark logits. The core
objective of this approach is to minimize both detection
loss and semantic loss, striving to find a Pareto optimal
solution that enhances watermark detectability while pre-
serving the semantic integrity of the generated text. Experi-
ments demonstrate that our method consistently improves
the Pareto frontier, surpassing previous techniques by offer-
ing improved watermark detectability and semantic integrity
concurrently. Furthermore, our approach exhibits enhanced
robustness against strong attacks, such as paraphrasing and
copy-paste attacks, highlighting its practical effectiveness
in safeguarding LLM outputs.
9

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Impact Statement
Our watermarking method for LLMs carries significant so-
cietal implications. By improving the detection of machine-
generated texts, our approach has the potential to prevent the
usage of LLMs in harmful activities, such as election ma-
nipulation campaigns, the dissemination of fake news, and
academic dishonesty. Furthermore, when used responsibly,
watermarking algorithms contribute to the protection of in-
tellectual property rights, benefiting companies and content
creators, and reducing the risk of unauthorized use. How-
ever, we realize the ethical considerations associated with
our work, as the misapplication of these tools could mis-
takenly label human-generated content as LLM-generated,
potentially leading to accusations of plagiarism against in-
nocent individuals.
References
Aaronson, S. ‘reform’ ai alignment with scott aaronson.
https://axrp.net/episode/2023/04/11/
episode-20-reform-ai-alignment-scott-
aaronson.html, 2023.
Abdelnabi, S. and Fritz, M. Adversarial watermarking trans-
former: Towards tracing text provenance with data hiding.
In 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP),
pp. 121–140. IEEE, 2021.
Alvarez, R. M., Eberhardt, F., and Linegar, M. Generative
ai and the future of elections, 2023.
Augenstein, I., Baldwin, T., Cha, M., Chakraborty, T.,
Ciampaglia, G. L., Corney, D., DiResta, R., Ferrara,
E., Hale, S., Halevy, A., et al. Factuality challenges
in the era of large language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.05189, 2023.
Brown, P. F., Della Pietra, S. A., Della Pietra, V. J., Lai,
J. C., and Mercer, R. L. An estimate of an upper bound
for the entropy of english. Computational Linguistics, 18
(1):31–40, 1992.
Brown, T., Mann, B., Ryder, N., Subbiah, M., Kaplan, J. D.,
Dhariwal, P., Neelakantan, A., Shyam, P., Sastry, G.,
Askell, A., et al. Language models are few-shot learners.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:
1877–1901, 2020.
Chanchani, S. J. and Huang, R. Composition-contrastive
learning for sentence embeddings.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.07380, 2023.
Chen, L., Bian, Y., Deng, Y., Li, S., Wu, B., Zhao, P., and
fai Wong, K. X-mark: Towards lossless watermarking
through lexical redundancy, 2023.
Chen, Z., Badrinarayanan, V., Lee, C.-Y., and Rabinovich,
A. Gradnorm: Gradient normalization for adaptive loss
balancing in deep multitask networks. In International
conference on machine learning, pp. 794–803. PMLR,
2018.
Cuzzocrea, A., Fadda, E., and Baldo, A. Lyapunov central
limit theorem: Theoretical properties and applications in
big-data-populated smart city settings. In Proceedings of
the 2021 5th International Conference on Cloud and Big
Data Computing, pp. 34–38, 2021.
Deb, K., Sindhya, K., and Hakanen, J. Multi-objective
optimization. In Decision sciences, pp. 161–200. CRC
Press, 2016.
D´esid´eri, J.-A. Multiple-gradient descent algorithm (mgda)
for multiobjective optimization. Comptes Rendus Mathe-
matique, 350(5-6):313–318, 2012.
Fernandez, P., Chaffin, A., Tit, K., Chappelier, V., and Furon,
T. Three bricks to consolidate watermarks for large lan-
guage models. In 2023 IEEE International Workshop
on Information Forensics and Security (WIFS), pp. 1–6.
IEEE, 2023.
Fr¨ohling, L. and Zubiaga, A. Feature-based detection of
automated language models: tackling gpt-2, gpt-3 and
grover. PeerJ Computer Science, 7:e443, 2021.
Gambini, M., Fagni, T., Falchi, F., and Tesconi, M. On
pushing deepfake tweet detection capabilities to the limits.
In Proceedings of the 14th ACM Web Science Conference
2022, pp. 154–163, 2022.
Gao, T., Yao, X., and Chen, D. SimCSE: Simple contrastive
learning of sentence embeddings. In Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2021.
Gehrmann, S., Strobelt, H., and Rush, A. M. Gltr: Statisti-
cal detection and visualization of generated text. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1906.04043, 2019.
Giagkiozis, I. and Fleming, P. J. Pareto front estimation
for decision making. Evolutionary computation, 22(4):
651–678, 2014.
Gottschalk, P. G. and Dunn, J. R. The five-parameter lo-
gistic: a characterization and comparison with the four-
parameter logistic. Analytical biochemistry, 343(1):54–
65, 2005.
Guo, B., Zhang, X., Wang, Z., Jiang, M., Nie, J., Ding,
Y., Yue, J., and Wu, Y. How close is chatgpt to human
experts? comparison corpus, evaluation, and detection.
arXiv preprint arxiv:2301.07597, 2023a.
10

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Guo, B., Zhang, X., Wang, Z., Jiang, M., Nie, J., Ding,
Y., Yue, J., and Wu, Y. How close is chatgpt to human
experts? comparison corpus, evaluation, and detection.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.07597, 2023b.
Hadsell, R., Chopra, S., and LeCun, Y. Dimensionality
reduction by learning an invariant mapping. In 2006
IEEE computer society conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition (CVPR’06), volume 2, pp. 1735–
1742. IEEE, 2006.
He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., and Sun, J. Delving deep
into rectifiers: Surpassing human-level performance on
imagenet classification. In Proceedings of the IEEE inter-
national conference on computer vision, pp. 1026–1034,
2015.
He, X., Xu, Q., Lyu, L., Wu, F., and Wang, C. Protecting
intellectual property of language generation apis with lex-
ical watermark. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference
on Artificial Intelligence, volume 36, pp. 10758–10766,
2022a.
He, X., Xu, Q., Zeng, Y., Lyu, L., Wu, F., Li, J., and Jia, R.
Cater: Intellectual property protection on text generation
apis via conditional watermarks. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 35:5431–5445, 2022b.
Ippolito, D., Duckworth, D., Callison-Burch, C., and Eck,
D. Automatic detection of generated text is easiest when
humans are fooled. arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.00650,
2019.
Jang, E., Gu, S., and Poole, B. Categorical reparameter-
ization with gumbel-softmax. In International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations, 2017. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=rkE3y85ee.
Kingma, D. P. and Ba, J. Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
Kirchenbauer, J., Geiping, J., Wen, Y., Katz, J., Miers, I.,
and Goldstein, T. A watermark for large language models.
In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on
Machine Learning, 2023a.
Kirchenbauer, J., Geiping, J., Wen, Y., Shu, M., Saifullah,
K., Kong, K., Fernando, K., Saha, A., Goldblum, M.,
and Goldstein, T. On the reliability of watermarks for
large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04634,
2023b.
Krishna, K., Song, Y., Karpinska, M., Wieting, J., and
Iyyer, M. Paraphrasing evades detectors of ai-generated
text, but retrieval is an effective defense. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.13408, 2023.
Kuditipudi, R., Thickstun, J., Hashimoto, T., and Liang, P.
Robust distortion-free watermarks for language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15593, 2023.
Lee, T., Hong, S., Ahn, J., Hong, I., Lee, H., Yun, S., Shin,
J., and Kim, G. Who wrote this code? watermarking for
code generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.15060, 2023.
Li, L., Wang, P., Ren, K., Sun, T., and Qiu, X. Origin tracing
and detecting of llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.14072,
2023.
Liang, W., Yuksekgonul, M., Mao, Y., Wu, E., and Zou,
J. Gpt detectors are biased against non-native english
writers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.02819, 2023.
Liu, A., Pan, L., Hu, X., Meng, S., and Wen, L. A semantic
invariant robust watermark for large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06356, 2023.
Liu, Y., Ott, M., Goyal, N., Du, J., Joshi, M., Chen, D.,
Levy, O., Lewis, M., Zettlemoyer, L., and Stoyanov, V.
Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692, 2019.
Maas, A. L., Hannun, A. Y., Ng, A. Y., et al. Rectifier
nonlinearities improve neural network acoustic models.
In Proc. icml, volume 30, pp. 3. Atlanta, GA, 2013.
Milojkovic, N., Antognini, D., Bergamin, G., Faltings, B.,
and Musat, C. Multi-gradient descent for multi-objective
recommender systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.00846,
2019.
Munyer, T. and Zhong, X. Deeptextmark: Deep learning
based text watermarking for detection of large language
model generated text. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.05773,
2023.
OpenAI.
New ai classifier for indicating ai-written
text.
https://openai.com/blog/new-ai-
classifier-for-indicating-ai-written-
text, 2023.
Piet, J., Sitawarin, C., Fang, V., Mu, N., and Wagner, D.
Mark my words: Analyzing and evaluating language
model watermarks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.00273,
2023.
Raffel, C., Shazeer, N., Roberts, A., Lee, K., Narang, S.,
Matena, M., Zhou, Y., Li, W., and Liu, P. J. Exploring
the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text
transformer. arXiv e-prints, 2019.
Raffel, C., Shazeer, N., Roberts, A., Lee, K., Narang, S.,
Matena, M., Zhou, Y., Li, W., and Liu, P. J. Exploring
the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text
transformer. The Journal of Machine Learning Research,
21(1):5485–5551, 2020.
11

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Ren, J., Xu, H., Liu, Y., Cui, Y., Wang, S., Yin, D., and
Tang, J. A robust semantics-based watermark for large
language model against paraphrasing. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.08721, 2023.
Rodriguez, J., Hay, T., Gros, D., Shamsi, Z., and Srinivasan,
R. Cross-domain detection of gpt-2-generated technical
text. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pp. 1213–
1233, 2022.
Schuhmann,
C.
essays-with-instructions.
https://huggingface.co/datasets/
ChristophSchuhmann/essays-with-
instructions, 2023.
Schulman, J., Zoph, B., Kim, C., Hilton, J., Menick, J.,
Weng, J., Uribe, J. F. C., Fedus, L., Metz, L., Pokorny,
M., et al. Chatgpt: Optimizing language models for
dialogue. OpenAI blog, 2022.
Sener, O. and Koltun, V.
Multi-task learning as multi-
objective optimization.
In Bengio, S., Wallach, H.,
Larochelle, H., Grauman, K., Cesa-Bianchi, N., and
Garnett, R. (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems 31, pp. 525–536. Curran Associates, Inc.,
2018.
URL http://papers.nips.cc/paper/
7334-multi-task-learning-as-multi-
objective-optimization.pdf.
Solaiman, I., Brundage, M., Clark, J., Askell, A., Herbert-
Voss, A., Wu, J., Radford, A., Krueger, G., Kim, J. W.,
Kreps, S., et al. Release strategies and the social impacts
of language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.09203,
2019.
Team, O. Chatgpt cheating scandal shocks florida high
school.
https://opendatascience.com/
chatgpt-cheating-scandal-shocks-
florida-high-school/, 2023.
Touvron, H., Martin, L., Stone, K., Albert, P., Almahairi,
A., Babaei, Y., Bashlykov, N., Batra, S., Bhargava, P.,
Bhosale, S., et al. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-
tuned chat models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288,
2023.
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones,
L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, Ł., and Polosukhin, I. At-
tention is all you need. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 30, 2017.
Wang, L., Yang, W., Chen, D., Zhou, H., Lin, Y., Meng,
F., Zhou, J., and Sun, X.
Towards codable text wa-
termarking for large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.15992, 2023.
Wolf, T., Debut, L., Sanh, V., Chaumond, J., Delangue, C.,
Moi, A., Cistac, P., Rault, T., Louf, R., Funtowicz, M.,
et al. Huggingface’s transformers: State-of-the-art natural
language processing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.03771,
2019.
Wolff, M. and Wolff, S. Attacking neural text detectors.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.11768, 2020.
Wouters, B. Optimizing watermarks for large language
models, 2023.
Wu, K., Pang, L., Shen, H., Cheng, X., and Chua, T.-S.
Llmdet: A third party large language models generated
text detection tool. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pp. 2113–
2133, 2023a.
Wu, P. Y., Tucker, J. A., Nagler, J., and Messing, S. Large
language models can be used to estimate the ideologies of
politicians in a zero-shot learning setting. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.12057, 2023b.
Yang, X., Chen, K., Zhang, W., Liu, C., Qi, Y., Zhang,
J., Fang, H., and Yu, N.
Watermarking text gener-
ated by black-box language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.08883, 2023.
Yoo, K., Ahn, W., Jang, J., and Kwak, N. Robust multi-bit
natural language watermarking through invariant features.
In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers), pp. 2092–2115, 2023.
Yu, X., Qi, Y., Chen, K., Chen, G., Yang, X., Zhu, P., Zhang,
W., and Yu, N. Gpt paternity test: Gpt generated text
detection with gpt genetic inheritance. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.12519, 2023.
Zhang, R., Hussain, S. S., Neekhara, P., and Koushanfar,
F. Remark-llm: A robust and efficient watermarking
framework for generative large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.12362, 2023.
Zhang, S., Roller, S., Goyal, N., Artetxe, M., Chen, M.,
Chen, S., Dewan, C., Diab, M., Li, X., Lin, X. V.,
et al. Opt: Open pre-trained transformer language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.01068, 2022.
Zhong, W., Tang, D., Xu, Z., Wang, R., Duan, N., Zhou,
M., Wang, J., and Yin, J. Neural deepfake detection with
factual structure of text. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.07475,
2020.
12

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
A. Post-Hoc Text Detection
Here is a supplement of related works, specifically focusing on the literature for post-hoc text detection. Post-hoc text
detection aims to distinguish generated texts from human-authored texts by analyzing generated texts without access to the
LLMs (i.e., treating them as black boxes). These methods primarily leverage features extracted using external language
models or by training models to act as detectors. Gehrmann et al. (2019) proposes the use of statistical metrics such
as perplexity, entropy, and n-gram frequency to detect LLM-generated texts, as those metrics for generated texts may
be different from human-written texts. Given a target text S, Sniffer (Li et al., 2023) uses multiple accessible language
models to compute a list of perplexity for the given text S, and train a linear classifier based on the perplexity features.
and LLMDet (Wu et al., 2023a) rely on perplexity-based features for detection. In addition, there are supervised learning
methods where classifiers are trained to specifically distinguish between texts generated by humans and LLMs. Fr¨ohling &
Zubiaga (2021) and Solaiman et al. (2019) utilized SVMs and regressions based on statistical features for LLM-generated
text detection, while Rodriguez et al. (2022) and Zhong et al. (2020) employed neural networks for this purpose. Other
works, such as those by Solaiman et al. (2019), Ippolito et al. (2019), Guo et al. (2023b), Yu et al. (2023), and the OpenAI
Detector (OpenAI, 2023), involve fine-tuning a pre-trained RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) classifier for the detection of
LLM-generated texts.
However, the diverse and evolving nature of LLM-generated texts presents challenges in developing robust post-hoc
detection techniques. For instance, the detection strategies effective for GPT-2 may not be applicable to GPT-3, highlighting
the evolving complexity of these models (Gambini et al., 2022). Additionally, these detection models are susceptible to
adversarial attacks, which can deteriorate their performance (Wolff & Wolff, 2020). A significant challenge in post-hoc text
detection is the minimal difference between LLM-generated and human-authored texts, often leading to human content
being mislabeled as LLM-generated (Liang et al., 2023). To mitigate these issues, watermarking approaches have been
proposed that embed statistical signals during text generation that help distinguish it from human generated texts. These
methods reduce false positive rates and substantially improve detection capabilities.
B. Proof of Theorem 4.1
The proof of Theorem 4.1 is detailed in Cuzzocrea et al. (2021). The theorem is applicable under the condition that
0 < µt < 1 ∀t ∈1, . . . , T; that is, µt ̸= 0 and µt ̸= 1. This assumption is valid in our context since γt is neither 0 nor 1 for
any t. Specifically, γt = 0 would imply the absence of any tokens in the green list, indicating that watermarking has not
been applied, whereas γt = 1 would suggest that every token is in the green list, rendering detection infeasible.
C. Multiple-Gradient Descent Algorithm
As explained in Sec. 4.4, we jointly optimize over the detection loss LD and semantic loss LS using multiple-gradient
descent algorithm (MGDA) (D´esid´eri, 2012; Sener & Koltun, 2018), which is formulated as:
min
Gγ,Gδ LD(Gγ, Gδ) and min
Gγ,Gδ LS(Gγ, Gδ).
In MGDA, the gradients of LD and LS with respect to (Gγ, Gδ) are firstly computed, which are denoted as gD and gS,
respectively. The resultant gradient vector, g, is then estimated using gD and gS that directs the optimization towards Pareto
optimal solutions. This is determined as the minimum norm point within the convex hull formed by gD and gS, which is
formulated as follows:
λ∗= arg minλ∈[0,1] ∥λgD + (1 −λ)gS∥2
(7)
Note that the closed form of λ∗can be obtained using a few simple operations following Sener & Koltun (2018).
λ∗=





1,
if gT
DgS ≥gT
DgD
0,
if gT
DgS ≥gT
SgS
(gS−gD)T gS
∥gD−gS∥2 ,
otherwise
Using the obtained optimal λ∗, we estimate the resultant gradient direction as the convex combination of gD and gS.
g = λ∗gD + (1 −λ∗)gS
(8)
13

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Then at each step, the parameters of (Gγ, Gδ) are updated using the resultant gradient vector, g, to optimize towards
Pareto optimal solutions. This process is repeatedly executed until the end of total number of epochs. Theoretically,
Multiple-Gradient Descent Algorithm (MGDA) is proven to converge to a Pareto stationary solution (D´esid´eri, 2012; Sener
& Koltun, 2018).
D. Experimental Details
Training Details.
A two-layer multilayer perceptron (MLP) is used as the γ and δ generators, with the hidden layer
dimension set to 64 and LeakyReLU as the hidden layer activation function (Maas et al., 2013). To ensure output values are
within the 0 to 1 range, the final layer of the γ-generator incorporates a Sigmoid function. The weights of the MLPs are the
only parameters we update during training. These weights were initialized using the Kaiming method (He et al., 2015), and
the Adam optimizer (Kingma & Ba, 2014) was utilized for optimization. The training process involved a batch size of 8 and
spanned 2 epochs with a fixed learning rate 1e −4. We set the temperature in Gumbel Softmax to be 0.1. Every 100 steps, a
checkpoint was saved, and the best-performing checkpoint on the validation set - judged in terms of improved detection
and semantic coherence - was selected for the final evaluation. The reported results reflect the performance of this selected
checkpoint on the test set, and we perform the inference using a batch size of 20.
Evaluation Details on Llama-2.
For Llama-2 7B and 13B, we directly loaded the original model from Hugging Face
library. For Llama-2 70B, we loaded a 4-bit quantized model 2 to fit the model to a single GPU.
Hardware.
The experiments are performed on Nvidia A100 GPUs with 80 GB of memory, including training and
inference. Each experiment is run on a single GPU without model or data parallelism. We load the LLMs directly from
huggingface (Wolf et al., 2019) in float16, and use PyTorch autocast to train our MLPs in full precision. Each
training instance takes 20 hours using 60 GB of memory.
Curve-Fit.
For all our results, we plot the curves given the points using curve fit under Python scipy module. We
use the five-parameter logistic curve (Gottschalk & Dunn, 2005) and the exponential curve to fit the points.
y = d +
a −d
(1 + (x/c)b)g , y = −a ∗ebx + c.
(9)
Here (x, y) are the points we trying to fit, and the letters a, b, c, d, g are parameters to fit the points. Initially, we apply the
first function, which has a strong expressive ability, allowing it to fit a wide range of curve shapes. However, due to this high
expressiveness and the limited number of data points, it may not always yield a concave curve. If so, we then resort to the
second function, which is less versatile compared to the first, but its constrained fitting capability makes it more suitable for
ensuring a concave curve shape in cases where data points are limited.
Trade-off Curves Between TPR and Semantic Similarity.
The trade-off curve between true positive rate (TPR) and
semantic similarity at a specified false positive rate (FPR) is plotted for our method and the baselines for comparison. In
this section, we outline the procedure for plotting the trade-off curves for different methods studied in this work. For each
method, we plot this curve by varying the parameters that directly influence TPR and semantic similarity among their
appropriate choices.
For KGW, we identified γ = 0.25 as optimal and varied δ in [1.0, 3.0] to ensure a strong watermark, i.e., TPR > 0.6 at a
low FPR. We concluded that γ = 0.25 was the best choice among the possible values of {0.1, 0.25, 0.5} specified in the
paper, based on the following analysis: We fixed γ at one of the values in {0.1, 0.25, 0.5}, varied δ in the range of [1.0, 3.0],
and plotted their corresponding TPR and semantic similarity values, as shown in Figure 7. We observed that the curve
corresponding to γ = 0.25 was slightly higher than the others. Therefore, we concluded that γ = 0.25 is relatively better,
a finding also mentioned in their GitHub repository. Consequently, we identified the combination of γ = 0.25 and δ in
the range of [1.0, 3.0] as Pareto optimal. We then varied these parameters to obtain their corresponding TPR and semantic
similarity values for KGW on the test set.
For the SWEET and SWEETNoPrompt methods, we set γ at 0.25 and varied δ within the range of [1.0, 8.0]. We explored
higher δ values to improve detectability by favoring green token selection. However, even with increased δ, a 100% TPR at
2https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/Llama-2-70B-GPTQ
14

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
0.70
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.6
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.98
1
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW =0.25
KGW =0.1
KGW =0.5
0.70
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.6
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.98
1
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW =0.25
KGW =0.1
KGW =0.5
Figure 7: Fix γ = {0.1, 0.25, 0.5} and varying δ for KGW.
0% FPR was not achieved. Furthermore, we did not adopt their entropy threshold value directly, as it is specifically tailored
to code generation. Instead, we calculated a new threshold tailored to our training dataset, using the same method they
described. Specifically, for each token in a training example, we measured the entropy of generating the next token using
LLM. These measurements were then used to estimate the entropy distribution. Finally, we set the threshold as the mean of
this distribution. By varying these δ parameters, we obtained corresponding TPR and semantic similarity values on the
test set, which were then plotted to create the curve for SWEET. Similarly, for SIR and SIRNoPrompt, we varied δ within the
range of [0.6, 2.0]. They are more sensitive to the δ parameter. For SIR, during watermark detection, we use prompts and
the generated completions to get watermark logits, and calculate z values by averaging the watermark logits of the generated
tokens. For SIRNoPrompt, we only use the generated completions to get watermark logits and calculate z values.
MultiBit is designed to encode a multi-bit message into generated text, with successful watermark detection occurring
when the decoded message matches the embedded watermark. The message length is strategically chosen to maintain a
predetermined FPR. We determined the FPR by calculating the percentage of human-written texts that were incorrectly
decoded as containing the watermark message. We utilized the smallest message lengths that yielded FPRs no higher than
0% and 1%, specifically 9 and 7 bits, respectively. This baseline does not employ a splitting ratio γ. For the watermark logit
δ, we vary in the range [0.9, 10.0].
EXP-edit uses exponential minimum sampling which is an approach to sample from a multinomial distribution. We set
the temperature to the default value of 1. Additionally, our method and other baselines employ a Top-k value of 50 during
generation. However, the original EXP-edit generation process did not include the Top-k feature, so we modified EXP-edit
to incorporate this feature for a fair comparison. We refer to this modified version as EXP-edit (Top-k=50). It is important to
note that indistinguishable methods like EXP-edit, which are based on pseudo-random sampling during generation, cannot
easily extend to other decoding strategies like greedy sampling or beam search, where no randomness is involved.
In our method, we initialize the parameters γt and δt to the values in {(0.1, 1.0), (0.25, 1.0), (0.25, 1.25), (0.25, 1.5),
(0.25, 1.75), (0.25, 2.0)} for all t. These initializations represent the six best pairs of γ and δ as shown in Figure 7. We
further optimize them within our multi-objective framework to improve detectability and semantic coherence. The TPR and
semantic similarity corresponding to these pairs are plotted on the test set to generate the performance curve for our method.
E. Results on PPL and Z-Score
Figure 8 illustrates the trade-off between the average z-score and SimCSE performance, as well as between the average
z-score and the oracle model perplexity (PPL), measured by OPT-2.7B. In Figure 2, we have already demonstrated that
our model achieves a superior Pareto frontier in terms of TPR and SimCSE. Extending this finding, Figure 8 shows that
our model also surpasses KGW in both average z-score and SimCSE metrics. Additionally, in terms of PPL, our method
performs comparably to the baseline methods.
15

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
4
6
8
10
12
z-score
KGW
Ours
10
12
PPL
4
6
8
10
12
z-score
KGW
Ours
Figure 8: The trade-off between average z-score and semantic similarity (left) and oracle model perplexity (right).
0.70
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.850
0.875
0.900
0.925
0.950
0.975
1.000
TPR
FPR = 0.2%
KGWexp
KGWth
Oursexp
Oursth
0.70
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
1.00
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGWexp
KGWth
Oursexp
Oursth
Figure 9: Comparison of our method with KGW using one-sided z-score thresholds estimated with theoretical FPR (denoted
by the subscript ‘th’). The results under empirical FPR (denoted by the subscript ‘exp’), shown in Figure 2 of the main
paper, are also included for comparison. The empirical and theoretical FPR curves are closely aligned or overlapping in
most regions, indicating that they are close estimates.
F. Results Based on Theoretical FPR
We computed the theoretical FPR of our method based on the assumption used in KGW that the length of the generated
text is sufficiently large. Under this assumption, the Poisson binomial distribution in our method can be approximated by a
normal distribution according to the central limit theorem, enabling the use of a z-test to determine the theoretical FPR.
Similarly, KGW calculates the theoretical FPR by approximating its binomial distribution with a normal distribution. Given
FPR of 0.2% and 1%, the corresponding one-sided z-scores under the normal distribution are 2.88 and 2.33, respectively.
The experimental results corresponding to these theoretical FPR are shown in Figure 9, where our approach demonstrated
superior performance compared to KGW. It is important to note that the theoretical FPR calculations for both KGW and our
method may not be entirely precise due to the approximations of distributions (Fernandez et al., 2023).
Alongside the curves corresponding to theoretical FPR, we also present curves corresponding to the empirical FPR,
as shown in Figure 2 of the main paper.
The empirical FPR are computed using 500 human-written texts.
For
KGW, we fixed γ = 0.25 as the splitting ratio, and the empirical thresholds for KGW were 2.82 and 2.17 for
FPR of 0.2% and 1%, respectively.
The empirical thresholds of our method, for the six different initializations
(0.25, 2.0), (0.25, 1.75), (0.25, 1.5), (0.25, 1.25), (0.25, 1.0), (0.1, 1.0), are as follows. At an FPR of 0.2%, the thresh-
olds are {2.68, 2.74, 3.11, 3.14, 2.87, 3.30}. At an FPR of 1%, the thresholds are {2.22, 2.24, 2.42, 2.31, 2.35, 2.70}. Each
point in our method has its own empirical FPR because we learn different splitting ratios, which impact the detection results.
We observe that both the empirical and theoretical FPR curves are very close or overlapping in most regions, indicating that
they are close estimates.
16

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Table 3: Comparison of TPR and PPL for No Watermark, EXP-edit, and Our Method on OPT-1.3B. The temperature is set
to 1. Top-k=0 indicates sampling from the entire vocabulary. Exponential minimum sampling is an approach to sample
from a multinomial distribution.
Method
Decoding Strategy
TPR @ 0%
TPR @ 1%
PPL
No Watermark
Beam search (Num Beams=2)
-
-
1.628
Greedy decoding
-
-
1.761
Multinomial sampling (Top-k=50)
-
-
8.210
Multinomial sampling (Top-k=0)
-
-
13.241
EXP-edit
Exponential minimum sampling (Top-k=50)
0.968
0.996
9.602
Exponential minimum sampling (Top-k=0)
0.922
0.996
16.235
Ours
Beam search (Num Beams=2)
0.994
0.994
1.847
Greedy decoding
0.984
0.986
2.140
Multinomial sampling (Top-k=50)
1.000
1.000
12.227
G. Further Discussion on SWEET
At (γ, δ) = (0.25, 3.0), an analysis of LLM-generated texts that SWEET fails to detect at 0% FPR indicates that, on average,
only 7 out of 200 tokens are high-entropy and suitable for SWEET watermarking. This limited number of watermarkable
tokens diminishes SWEET’s detectability, even at high δ. To illustrate this limitation, consider a hypothetical scenario: even
if, in the best case scenario (which is rare), all 7 out of 7 tokens are identified as green tokens, the z-score calculated using
the formula (|s|G −γT)/
p
Tγ(1 −γ) is 4.58. As per SWEET’s implementation, T is the total number of high-entropy
tokens, and |s|G represents the identified green list tokens among them. However, with a higher number of watermarkable
tokens, say 70, even if 50 were identified as green tokens, the z-score would increase to 8.97. Thus, the limited number of
high-entropy tokens in SWEET hampers its detectability, highlighting the need for more watermarkable tokens for effective
watermarking.
H. Further Discussion on EXP-edit
In this section, we delve into a detailed comparison of our method with EXP-edit. EXP-edit’s generation process, which
employs exponential minimum sampling, is pseudo-random. This pseudo-random sampling process enables sampling from
a multinomial distribution. By using a watermark key, this pseudo-random process becomes deterministic. Detection of the
watermark relies on an edit score (Kuditipudi et al., 2023), which measures the likelihood of the text being watermarked
given this watermark key.
EXP-edit is considered an indistinguishable method because it does not bias the output LLM distribution towards specific
tokens, instead exploiting the randomness of the sampling strategy for embedding the watermark. We examine this
indistinguishable property using the perplexity (PPL) of the generated texts. We use an oracle model, OPT-2.7B, to compute
PPL of generated text. PPL can estimate whether the output text is sampled from the same probability distribution, as such
samples will have closer PPL values. However, it is important to note that PPL is not a reliable indicator of semantic quality.
For example, the authors of Piet et al. (2023) found that PPL favored repeated texts, with one model producing a partial
response followed by repeated ‘l’ characters, which was preferred due to its lower PPL.
The indistinguishable property of EXP-edit is evident when comparing the PPL values. Under multinomial sampling from
the entire vocabulary, No watermark generation (Top-k=0) has a PPL of 13.241, while EXP-edit has a PPL of 16.235, as
shown in Table 3. Similarly, with Top-k=50, the PPL of EXP-edit (9.602) is close to that of No watermark (8.210).
On the other hand, control over the decoding strategy is also necessary to meet specific goals. For instance, if the goal is
to attain the lowest PPL, beam search or greedy decoding can be used. As shown, No watermark with beam search, with
number of beams 2, achieves the lowest PPL of 1.628, followed by greedy decoding with a PPL of 1.761. Our method,
based on KGW, biases the distribution towards a specific set of tokens for embedding the watermark and can be applied
on top of any decoding strategy as a heuristic. As demonstrated, our method with beam search decoding (num beams = 2)
achieves a PPL of 1.847, and with greedy decoding, a PPL of 2.140, outperforming both variants of EXP-edit. Additionally,
17

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Table 4: Qualitative result on a randomly selected test example is presented. This includes the prompt, the no-watermark
text, the watermarked text from the KGW method, and the watermarked text from our method. To assess detectability, we
provide the z-scores for the no-watermark text, the KGW method, and our method. The z-score for the no-watermark text
is calculated under the assumption that it was generated by our method. Additionally, we include SimCSE evaluations to
measure the similarity between the text generated by the KGW and our methods, and the no-watermarked text.
Prompt
· · · Typically, when the assessed value goes up
dramatically for a big multi-tenant commercial building,
the property owner isn’t the one on the hook for the bill —
it’s the tenants.
Sylvester, who previously sat on the B.C. Assessment
Board and the Downtown Vancouver Business
Improvement Association, said she’s been discussing the
idea with various people recently, including, just in the last
week, the former chair of B.C. Assessment, and a
provincial cabinet minister.
But property-tax agent Paul Sullivan said while the idea is
“not without merit,” there are some
No watermark (z-score: -0.40)
issues with it, including who would be responsible.
“Who is going to be responsible for paying this? Who are
the landlords?” he asked. “Are they just the large
commercial property owners? Are they multi-tenant
buildings where the entire business is owned by the
landlord?”
But Sylseter said the city could do it by creating a new
low-impact category. Under her plan, which she’s
presented in a report, the existing triple-net category
would become a low-impact category, which would allow
small businesses to still pay the higher property rates.
It will provide relief to the business community, · · ·
KGW (z-score: 5.77, SimCSE: 0.73)
questions about the size of the proposed subcategory.
“To my understanding it’s going to be a single income
property-income tax scheme,’’ Sullivan said. “So as a
result, there are going to be, quite a few, many (businesses)
that probably would fall to that part instead of the
(mainstream) part.”
For example, Sullivan noted, under the city’s existing tax
rate, a small-business operator would pay 80 per cent of
the property-tax rate on an $800,000 home, and 15 per
cent on anything above.
But if Sylvester proposes a new subcategory within that
tax bracket, that employee would pay less as a business
has a “limited ability to grow their cash.” · · ·
Ours (z-score: 6.45, SimCSE: 0.85)
questions about the size of the proposed change, what it
would mean to businesses that don’t have large landlords,
and how it would apply to all commercial-property
owners.
“The biggest issue is how it would apply to non-residential
buildings. If you consider that the vast majority of
Vancouver is for residential, what are the implications of a
change that would apply to non-residential buildings only?”
said Sullivan.
But Sylvester said her proposal is to put the property-tax
rate on small businesses in the form of an exemption, so
businesses like hers — which range from small bakeries to
boutique clothing shops — would not pay triple-net.· · ·
our method achieves good TPR values at both 0% and 1% FPR. In contrast, it is not straightforward to extend EXP-edit to
greedy and beam search, which do not involve randomness.
Furthermore, the authors of Piet et al. (2023) claim that indistinguishable methods are overly restrictive, and KGW-based
methods offer more freedom to the user, enabling better detectability without significant loss of text quality.
I. Further Analysis on Influence of Preceding Tokens on Watermark Strength
In Sec. 5.3, we analyze the learned watermark logits, δ, and splitting ratios, γ. Our analysis indicates that lower γ and δ
values (weaker watermark) are assigned to adjectives (ADJ) and determiners (DET), likely due to the high likelihood of a
noun following. In contrast, punctuation (PUNCT) is assigned higher γ and δ values (stronger watermark) possibly due to
the absence of restrictions on the subsequent token. To further support this claim, we estimated the transition probabilities
from adjectives, determiners, and punctuation to the next token’s part of speech (POS) tag using our training dataset. Notably,
our observations show that a determiner is followed by a noun with a 0.7 probability, while an adjective is followed by a
noun with a 0.56 probability. In the case of punctuation, we observed a nearly uniform distribution over the next token’s
POS tags. These observations reinforce our claims in Sec. 5.3.
18

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
0.70
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.850
0.875
0.900
0.925
0.950
0.975
1.000
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
MOO
Weighted Sum
0.70
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
Semantic Similarity
0.90
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
1.00
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
MOO
Weighted Sum
Figure 10: Comparison of multi-objective optimization and weighted sum optimization. For the weighted sum optimization,
we set λws to 4 × 10−4 based on the averaged value of
λmoo
1−λmoo during the optimization.
0.58
0.60
0.62
0.64
0.66
Semantic Similarity
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.58
0.60
0.62
0.64
0.66
Semantic Similarity
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
(a) Generation length = 50 tokens.
0.770 0.775 0.780 0.785 0.790
Semantic Similarity
0.95
0.96
0.97
0.98
0.99
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.770 0.775 0.780 0.785 0.790
Semantic Similarity
0.975
0.980
0.985
0.990
0.995
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
(b) Generation length = 400 tokens.
Figure 11: Comparison of our method with KGW on short and long text generations. For short text generations, we set the
generation length to 50 tokens. For long text generations, we set the generation length to 400 tokens.
J. Qualitative Analysis
We present a qualitative analysis of an example randomly selected from the test set in Table 4. Using the same prompt, we
compare the no-watermark generation, KGW generation, and our model’s generation. We observe that our method has a
higher z-score (6.45) compared to the one obtained from the KGW method (5.77). Additionally, the SimCSE score is also
higher for our method (0.85) compared to KGW (0.73).
We can also qualitatively observe the impact of the token-specific watermarking employed by our method. For example,
consider the sequence ‘...would apply to all commercial...’ from the third line of our method. Here, ‘apply’ follows ‘would,’
‘to’ follows ‘apply,’ and ‘all’ follows ‘to,’ with each of these tokens being marked as green. In contrast, the token succeeding
‘all,’ i.e., ‘commercial,’ is marked as red. Upon calculating the splitting ratio (γ) and the watermark logit (δ) for ‘would,’
‘apply,’ ‘to,’ and ‘all,’ we find that ‘all’ is the only token associated with both a low γ and a low δ. This demonstrates that
our method adapts its watermarking strength to maintain semantic coherence for significant words like ‘commercial,’ which
is present in the prompt. Conversely, for tokens like ‘apply,’ ‘to,’ ‘all,’ our model enforces a stronger watermark, aiming to
boost detectability.
On the other hand, the KGW method exhibits limitations in handling token specificity. For instance, examining the sequence
‘...a single income property...’ from the second line of a KGW-generated text reveals this issue. KGW applies uniform γ and
δ values across all tokens, leading to the generation of a green token ‘income,’ which is less relevant to the main idea.
K. Ablation Study: Comparison of MOO and Weighted Sum Optimization
Multi-Objective Optimization (MOO) offers a more advanced approach than traditional weighted sum optimization for
balancing various objectives. In contrast to weighted sum, which depends on a fixed hyperparameter to balance two
objectives, MOO dynamically estimates the optimal gradient direction, effectively managing the trade-off between the
objectives.
19

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
Table 5: Memory utilization of OPT-1.3B for generating 200 tokens, measured in MB.
Method
Generation (MB)
Detection (MB)
No Watermark
3475
-
KGW
3477
503
SWEET
3477
4933
EXP-edit
3486
416
SIR
5475
2425
MultiBit
4517
1485
Ours
3731
643
To demonstrate the effectiveness of MOO, we compare it with the weighted sum approach. For weighted sum, our γ- and
δ-generators are trained on a single objective function that combines LD and LS using a trade-off parameter λws, formulated
as:
L = LS + λwsLD.
(10)
In MOO, the optimal λmoo is calculated for each iteration to balance the gradients from both objectives. This dynamic
adjustment of λ leads us towards the Pareto optimal solution, showcasing MOO’s superior capability in handling multiple
objectives.
In this analysis, we set the λws to 4 × 10−4. This value is based on our MOO experiment for a fair comparison. Although
λmoo is dynamically adjusted throughout the training process, we calculate its average value across this process and use
it to determine λws. However, since the resultant gradient in MOO is a convex combination of gradients from individual
objectives, using λmoo as the coefficient, we set λws as λmoo/(1 −λmoo), which turns out to be the aforementioned value.
We train with the following initialization: (0.25, 0.75), (0.25, 1.0), (0.25, 1.25), (0.25, 1.5), (0.25, 1.75), and (0.25, 2.0).
The results in Figure 10 show that 5 out of 6 points obtained by weighted sum optimization fall below the Pareto frontier
established by MOO, demonstrating the effectiveness of MOO. These findings suggest that, for weighted sum optimization,
improving performance for each initialization requires estimating the optimal λws through trial and error, a process that
can be exhaustive. However, by employing MOO, our method dynamically estimates this trade-off parameter, ensuring
convergence towards the Pareto optimal solution.
L. Computational Costs
We evaluate the computational time of our method for both text generation and watermark detection, and compare it to the
baselines. Table 2 shows the results. We also show memory utilization in Table 5. Our method exhibits higher generation and
detection speeds compared to EXP-edit, SIR, and MultiBit. The generation and detection time of our method is comparable
to that of KGW, SWEET, and No Watermarking. Overall, our method achieves superior detectability and semantic coherence
without a significant increase in computational cost or memory cost.
M. Performance Across Varied Generation Lengths
In our main experiments, the generation length was set to 200 tokens. Here, we extend our evaluation to include both shorter
and longer text generations. For short text generations, we configured the prompt length to at least 200 tokens, followed by
a generation of 50 tokens by the LLM. For longer texts, the prompt was set to a minimum of 600 tokens, with the LLM
generating 400 tokens. We used the C4 news-like dataset and the OPT-1.3B model for these text generations. As illustrated
in Figure 11, our method is relatively better than KGW, showcasing the efficacy of our approach across various generation
lengths.
N. Performance on Different Datasets
We further evaluated our learned models (γ- and δ-generator networks), initially trained on the C4 dataset, on two
additional datasets without further training. The Essays dataset (Schuhmann, 2023) comprises sets of instructions paired
with corresponding essays. For this dataset, we used the instructions as prompts to generate essay responses. The HC3
dataset (Guo et al., 2023a) contains ChatGPT-generated text, and we use the initial 100 tokens of the ChatGPT-generated
20

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
0.62
0.64
0.66
Semantic Similarity
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
1.00
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.62
0.64
0.66
Semantic Similarity
0.95
0.96
0.97
0.98
0.99
1.00
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
(a) Essays dataset
0.68
0.69
0.70
0.71
0.72
Semantic Similarity
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
TPR
FPR = 0%
KGW
Ours
0.68
0.69
0.70
0.71
0.72
Semantic Similarity
0.875
0.900
0.925
0.950
0.975
1.000
TPR
FPR = 1%
KGW
Ours
(b) HC3 dataset
Figure 12: Comparison of our method with KGW on the Essays and HC3 datasets.
text as prompts to generate the completions. The OPT-1.3B LLM was used for the experiment, with the generation length
fixed at 200 tokens. As shown in Figure 12, our method outperforms the baseline KGW method, demonstrating the robust
transferability of the γ and δ networks across different datasets.
O. Modified Corruption Attack
In this evaluation, we assume the attacker knows the γ value for each token as determined by our method, enabling them
to perform a corruption attack based on this knowledge. To investigate how varying γ values affect attack efficacy, we
conducted experiments with three types of corruptions:
• Using our trained γ network to select 30 tokens in the vocabulary with the lowest γ values; then randomly substituting
P% of the tokens in a watermarked text with tokens uniformly selected from this low-γ list.
• Using our trained γ network to select 30 tokens in the vocabulary with the highest γ values; then randomly substituting
P% of the tokens in a watermarked text with tokens uniformly selected from this high-γ list.
• Randomly substituting P% of the tokens in a watermarked text with tokens drawn uniformly from the vocabulary.
We tested our method using substitution ratios (P%) of 20% and 50%, and the results are shown in Figure 13. Our
method consistently outperformed KGW across all attack scenarios. This underscores the robustness of our method against
Corruption Attack, even when the watermarked text is corrupted using tokens selected based on γ values derived from our
trained γ network. The strong robustness of our method mainly stems from the improved z-score, achieved through our
multi-objective optimization framework that concurrently maximizes the z-score and SimCSE. As a result, even when a
Corruption Attack attempts to alter the γ scores of certain tokens, the remaining tokens maintain a sufficiently high z-score,
facilitating the easy detection of the watermark.
21

Token-Specific Watermarking with Enhanced Detectability and Semantic Coherence for LLMs
0.71
0.72
0.73
Semantic Similarity
0.70
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
TPR
Substitution Ratio=0.2
KGW
Ours
0.71
0.72
0.73
Semantic Similarity
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
TPR
Substitution Ratio=0.5
KGW
Ours
(a) Substitution using low-γ tokens.
0.71
0.72
0.73
Semantic Similarity
0.70
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
TPR
Substitution Ratio=0.2
KGW
Ours
0.71
0.72
0.73
Semantic Similarity
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
TPR
Substitution Ratio=0.5
KGW
Ours
(b) Substitution using high-γ tokens.
0.71
0.72
0.73
Semantic Similarity
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
TPR
Substitution Ratio=0.2
KGW
Ours
0.71
0.72
0.73
Semantic Similarity
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
TPR
Substitution Ratio=0.5
KGW
Ours
(c) Substitution using random tokens.
Figure 13: Corruption attack where the attacker substitutes P% of tokens with low-γ, high-γ, and random tokens when the
FPR is 1%. P is set to 20% and 50%.
22
